By Angela McManusA BOYS' Brigade company in the East End of Glasgow is one of a number of local groups facing an uncertain future following a decision by the Church of Scotland to merge two churches.Mark Rennie, captain of 94th Glasgow (1st Shettleston) Company of the Boys' Brigade, which was formed in 1894, said hundreds of people could be affected across the community.&quot;Part of the problem is that they don't have a proper timescale. We've been told it might be Christmas when the move will go through,&quot; said the 41-year-old from Sandyhills who has been involved with the Boys' Brigade for 32 years.&quot;We're getting ready to finish our session now and are unclear what we're planning for in two or three months.&quot;A 10-year battle to save the church was lost last month when it was reported that a final appeal to the Church of Scotland, Council of Assembly failed and the decision to close Shettleston Old Church was confirmed.The committee praised the congregation for its community work but agreed the church building was not sustainable going forward.&quot;In the Boys' Brigade we're talking about 30 people, and that's just one organisation. Looking at all the other groups that use the church halls, you're easily going to be in the hundreds,&quot; said Mr Rennie.Those community groups include gymnastics clubs, a pre-Boys' Brigade group and a mother and toddler group as well as organisations including Key Housing, Glasgow Association for Mental Health and a veterans' group. A Romanian orthodox church uses the halls on a Sunday and a food bank on a Friday.&quot;The worst-case scenario for us would be closure,&quot; said Mr Rennie. &quot;We are seen as a company that is successful, with boys winning awards and helping other companies out. They are seen as a good example because of what they have achieved.&quot; We already have some kids who travel a bit of a distance - getting to Tollcross would maybe be two bus journeys to get there and we maybe lose these kids. There wouldn't be an alternative.&quot;Boys aged from eight to 18 years of age are members of the company. Some have been working for more than five years towards the Queen's Award, the highest award in the brigade, and fear they may lose out because of the closure.&quot;The company belongs to the congregation and they might decide they want to move us or the company in Tollcross is the way they want to go. It is unclear,&quot; said Mr Rennie.&quot; If we were to go to Tollcross the hall space there is limited. For us to go there would put more pressure on the hall.&quot;He added that most new members of the Shettleston Old Parish congregation come from links to the organisations that meet in its halls, such as the Boys' Brigade. At a time when the church in general is losing members, he said he cannot understand why a church that is growing and supports so many groups across the community is under threat.A Church of Scotland spokesman said: &quot;During the appeal hearing regarding the closure of Shettleston Old Parish Church, the committee discussed the availability of space in other church properties nearby. The Kirk Session will be looking at maximising the use of these properties, and will be working over the summer months to ensure an appropriate plan is put in place.&quot;Priority will be given to groups affiliated to the church, such as the Boys' Brigade, in making sure there is adequate provision for them to continue. We believe any fears over their future are misplaced, and time and care will be taken over the transfer process as these two congregations join together.&quot;The red sandstone church building celebrated its 250th anniversary in 2002 marking its continued history as one of the oldest Church of Scotland parishes in the city.The original church was first built and opened in 1752. In 1886, partly as a consequence of mining beneath the building, it was deemed unsafe by the Glasgow Presbytery and recommended that a new church be built and the old church was then demolished. The building was completed in December 1902.