MP Gavin Newlands has hit out over delays on handing the old Renfrew police station back to the community.
The SNP member for Paisley &amp; Renfrewshire North accused Renfrewshire Council of allowing the B-Listed former police precinct at Inchinnan Road “to rot.”
The local authority is the custodian of the historic Renfrew Common Good Fund property, built in 1910, which was operational as a police office until the new purpose-built facility opened in May 2012.
The building was designed by renowned Glasgow architect Alexander Nisbet Paterson and is a well-known landmark in the town.
In May last year, the empty building was the target of vandals who started a fire in the premises, causing damage estimated at tens of thousands of pounds.
Since then, little progress has been made in bringing the building back into public use – a situation which Mr Newlands wants to change.
Mr Newlands said: “As the new member of parliament I am wanting to see action, and I will be in touch with members of Renfrew Development Trust about what progress can be made for the situation at old Renfrew Police Station.
“Despite three years passing, Renfrewshire Council have failed to conclude the return of the building from the police, which would, in turn, release it for further good use.
“Local people are rightly frustrated that such an historic local building is being left to rot at the hands of Labour-led Renfrewshire Council, who have been wrangling over the transfer of the building whilst it lies empty.
“The situation is unacceptable. There is a clear desire to see the transfer of the building straight into community use, and I wholeheartedly support this.
“It is a Renfrew Common Good Fund building, part of the inheritance of the town, and Renfrewshire Council as the custodians of the building have been negligent in their duties.”
He added: “The police have a strong presence in the town and have been operating from their Station Road base since May 2012, but the Labour-led council have been too slow to get the old police station building back into use since they took control of Renfrewshire in May 2012.
“There is immense local interest in the building, including from local community organisations.
“We all share the view that as long as it lies empty it is vulnerable to vandalism, and what a waste of a key local asset it is.”
Councillor Eddie Grady, Depute Convener of Renfrewshire Council’s Finance and Resources Policy Board hit back the claims.
He said: “Mr Newlands’ belated intervention is the worst type of electoral opportunism.
“He ignores the facts and is trying to mislead the community.
“The fact is the police still lease the building. The council continues to work with the police to reach an agreement with a view to bringing the building back into community use.”
