AS little Noah Williams’s mum watches him running around playing with his sister like any other toddler, she admits these are precious moments she feared she would never see.
Noah was born with serious lung problems and his only hope was being hooked up to a heart and lung bypass machine at another hospital 10 miles away.
But doctors were so convinced the tot wouldn’t survive the journey that they advised his mum Frances and dad Martin to have him baptised.
And even after he survived the journey and bleeding on his brain when he was 11 days old, the couple were warned Noah could suffer brain damage and might never walk or talk.
But now 32-year-old Frances calls him her little miracle.
She said: “I am the luckiest mum and he is just so special.
“To look at him you wouldn’t know he had such a terrible start to life.
“When we go back to hospital, everyone is so surprised. No one expected this outcome.
“We were told all sorts of things, including that he might not walk, and now he’s running.
“He’s just like any other toddler. He is meeting all his milestones and he is such a wee boy. He’s so happy and I feel so blessed to have him.”
 

The family’s nightmare began when Noah was born unable to breathe at the Royal Alexandra Hospital in Paisley.
He had suffered from severe meconium aspiration – caused when a baby ingests its own waste during birth – and it clogged up his lungs and airways.
Noah, who was described in medical papers as “pale” and “floppy” at birth, was then whisked away to the resuscitation room.
Doctors battled for more than three hours to him breathing on a ventilator.
But they warned the couple his only hope was to be transferred to Glasgow’s Sick Kids Hospital at Yorkhill immediately.
Frances said: “It was only when they said, ‘If baptism is important to you, you should do that now’, that it hit hard that this was serious and my baby was dying.
“I felt like I had been punched in the stomach.
“And we found out much later that the doctors didn’t think he was going to make it to Yorkhill.”
She added: “When Noah was born it didn’t click that there was anything wrong, even though there were people rushing around everywhere.
“I saw them bring in the incubator and then he was taken away. I just thought they would bring him back.”
 

But it was four hours before she got to see her son, when she faced the heartbreak of saying goodbye before he was rushed to Yorkhill.
Frances, who was kept in hospital overnight, said: “We weren’t allowed to pick him up but we could put our hands through to touch him with our fingers.
“Then when the transport team arrived he was put in a special incubator and it was all covered up. I just didn’t want to let him go. I was being asked to trust people I didn’t know, with my son.
“I remember just standing at the window watching the ambulance and all I wanted was to be with him and hold his hand and be part of what he was going through.”
Against the odds, he survived the trip and was hooked up to an ECMO (Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation) machine which circulated Noah’s blood outside his body to give the heart and lungs time to recover.
After failing to show signs of improvement, he was kept on the machine for 11 days.
Frances, who kept a vigil by her son’s bedside for eight hours every day, said: “When I first saw him on the machine, it was really difficult. You could see the tubes coming out of his neck and he was sedated and he just looked like he was dead.
“I felt like my whole body was caving in on me. I was sitting looking at him thinking, he’s not going to survive’. He didn’t seem to be bouncing back they way I thought he should.”
After 10 days, it all became too much for Frances, who swapped places with Martin to go home and look after their other children, Niamh, seven, and Sophia, five.
Only a few hours later, he returned home to deliver the news that Noah’s condition was improving and medics were set to take him off the machine.
 

But the joy was short-lived as scans showed he had suffered a major brain bleed, meaning they had to take him off the machine immediately.
Frances said: “We are just so lucky he turned that corner when he did because if they had to take him off the machine when his body wasn’t ready, there wouldn’t have been much more they could have done.”
Doctors were worried Noah would need surgery to relieve a build-up of pressure and told his parents the first 24 hours off the ECMO machine would be critical.
But thankfully the bleed continued to improve without intervention and he came of a ventilator two weeks later.
And Frances was finally allowed to hold her son for the time when he was just over a month old.
After 10 weeks in Yorkhill, he was transferred to the city’s Southern General Hospital, where he remained on oxygen for a further month, before he was finally allowed home at 14 weeks.
Before he left hospital, however, the couple were told Noah could be left with brain damage and there was a chance he might never walk or talk.
But as she watches him running outside and playing with his sisters like any other toddler, she said: “I am eternally grateful to everyone at Yorkhill and the Southern General. Without them, Noah wouldn’t be here. They saved his life.
“I often think that if we had been living anywhere else in the world, there is a good chance he would not have survived.”
 

WHEN little Noah Williams was born with serious lung problems doctors advised his parents to have him baptised, as there was nothing more the hospital could do for him.

His only hope was to be hooked up to a special &pound;40,000-a-year heart and lung bypass machine, after complications during labour left him clinging to life.
But doctors, who had to bring Noah back to life when he was unable to breathe at birth, did not think he was strong enough to survive the 10-mile journey for specialist care.
Now against all odds, the brave tot, who also suffered a major bleed to his brain at 11 days old and needed dozens of blood products to keep him alive during his 14-week fight for life in three different hospitals, is now like any happy, healthy two-year-old.
Doctors warned his devastated parents, Frances and Martin, that “no one goes through what Noah has gone through and comes out scot-free, entirely”.
But today Mrs Williams, 32, from Helensburgh, Argyll and Bute, hailed her son, who was walking by 13 months and is a dab hand at jig-saw puzzles, her “little miracle”.
“When we go back to the hospital, everyone is so surprised,” she said. “No one expected this outcome.
“We were told all sorts of things, including that he might not walk - and now he’s running.
“He’s just like any other toddler. He is meeting all his milestones and he is such a wee boy. He’s so happy and I feel so blessed to have him.
“When he was born the doctor said it took a long time to stabilise him. He had to be intubated at five minutes and then again at 18 minutes [to get air into his lungs] and they kept saying he’s very, very poorly. But it still didn’t register how serious it was.
“It was only when they said, ‘if baptism is important to you, you should do that now’, that it hit hard that this was serious and my baby was dying.
“I felt like I had been punched in the stomach.
“And we found out much later that the doctors didn’t think he was going to make it to Yorkhill.”
The family’s nightmare began when Noah was born at the Royal Alexandra Hospital in Paisley, unable to breathe following a rare complication in the womb.
He had suffered from severe meconium aspiration - caused when a baby ingests its own waste during birth - and it clogged up his lungs and airways.
Noah, who was described in medical papers as “pale” and “floppy” at birth, was then whisked away to the resuscitation room.
Doctors battled for more than three hours to get the newborn breathing on a ventilator, as a short-term measure to keep him alive.
But they warned the couple there was nothing else they could do for him, and his best and only hope of survival was to be transferred to Yorkhill Children’s Hospital in Glasgow, immediately.
As he was so sick, however, the doctors did not think he was strong enough to survive the trip.
Mrs Williams said: “I didn’t understand what was happening. I had had a normal pregnancy and was looking forward to seeing my baby.
“So when Noah was born it didn’t click that there was anything wrong, even though there were people rushing around everywhere.
“I saw them bring in the incubator and then he was taken away. I just thought they would bring him back.”
But it was four hours before she got to see her son, when she faced the heartbreak of saying goodbye to the tiny newborn before he was rushed by a neonatal transport team along Scotland’s busiest motorway, in a desperate bid to save him.
Mrs Williams, who was kept in hospital overnight, said: “We weren’t allowed to pick him up but we could put our hands through to touch him with our fingers.
“Then when the transport team arrived he was put in a special incubator and it was all covered up. I just didn’t want to let him go. I was being asked to trust people I didn’t know, with my son.
“I remember just standing at the window watching the ambulance and all I wanted was to be with him and hold his hand and be part of what he was going through.”
While in the ambulance, Noah’s condition continued to deteriorate and doctors had to pull out all the stops to keep him alive for the journey.
Against all odds, he survived the trip and on arrival at Yorkhill he was whisked to the hospital’s intensive care unit and hooked up to a special life-support machine called ECMO (Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation).
The state-of-the art equipment, funded by Yorkhill Children’s Charity, circulated Noah’s blood outside his body in a bid to give the heart and lungs time to recover.
He was only expected to be on the machine for five days. But when he failed to show signs of improvement, he was kept on it for a further six days.
And every day a specially trained physiotherapist would come in and massage his chest to try and clear his lungs and airways.
Mrs Williams, who kept a vigil by her son’s bedside for eight hours every day, said: “When I first saw him on the machine, it was really difficult. You could see the tubes coming out of his neck and he was sedated and he just looked like he was dead.
“I felt like my whole body was caving in on me. I was sitting looking at him thinking, he’s not going to survive’. He didn’t seem to be bouncing back they way I thought he should be.
“It was just total heart-break. I was torn because I didn’t want to lose him but at the same time I didn’t want him to suffer in pain.”
Mrs Williams said the specialist nurses looking after Noah helped her through each day by prompting her to take time-out for lunch and sharing their life stories to make her feel less isolated.
But after 10 days and still no improvement in Noah’s condition, it all became too much.
She switched places with her husband, who had been taking care of their other children, Niamh, seven, and Sophia, five, at home.
But he was only at the hospital for a few hours when he returned home.
Mrs Williams said: “As soon as I saw him, I started screaming, ‘why are you here?’ because I knew he wouldn’t just leave Noah there. I really thought he was going to tell me we had lost him.
“I think it took him about five minutes for him to calm me down, just to listen to him, because I didn’t want to hear it.”
Eventually, he was able to tell his wife that Noah was getting better and medics were preparing to take him off the ECMO machine.
But the joy was short-lived as scans showed he had suffered a major bleed to his brain, due to him being on the machine for so long.
This meant they had no choice but to take him off the machine that had been keeping him alive for 11 days.
Mrs Williams said: “We are just so lucky he turned that corner when he did because if they had to take him off the machine when his body wasn’t ready, there wouldn’t have been much more they could have done. It was a double-edged sword.”
Doctors were worried that Noah would need surgery on his brain to relieve a potential build-up of pressure and told his parents that the next 24-hours after coming off the ECMO machine would be critical.
But thankfully the bleed continued to improve without intervention and he came of a ventilator two weeks later.
And Mrs Williams was finally allowed to hold her son for the time when he was just over a month old.
After 10 weeks in Yorkhill, he was transferred to the city’s Southern General Hospital, where he remained on oxygen for a further month, before he was finally allowed home at 14 weeks old.
Mrs Williams said: “It was the most wonderful feeling to get him home and be able to get on with our lives.
“Now to look at him you wouldn’t know he had such a terrible start to life.”
Before he left hospital, however, the couple were dealt the devastating news that their son could be left with lasting brain damage and there was a chance he might never walk or talk.
But as she watches him running outside and playing with his sisters like any other toddler, she said:” I am the luckiest mum and he is just so precious.
“I am eternally grateful to everyone at Yorkhill and the Southern General. Without them, Noah wouldn’t be here. They saved his life.
“I often think that if we had been living anywhere else in the world, there is a good chance he would not have survived.
“He’s my little miracle and he is just so special.”
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

