While most of us want to look as good as possible as we get older, the prospect of having cosmetic surgery can be daunting.
But it is possible to achieve plumper, firmer and fresher looking skin without having to go under the knife.
As well as reducing the lines and wrinkles that age us, a non-surgical facelift can also restore shape while lifting and tightening the skin.
Professional cosmetic skin clinic Face &amp; Body , based in Edinburgh’s west end, offers a number of treatments which combine to provide the kind of results enjoyed by Hollywood A-listers.
The clinic’s Medical Director is Dr Victoria Dobbie , one of the country’s leading experts on non-surgical facelifts, which include treatments using Ultherapy, dermal fillers and Botox.
She said: “These days women and men can have very good results without having to have surgery.
“We specialise in giving our clients very natural-looking results.
“One of the things people worry about when they have a surgical procedure is that it’s not going to look very natural.
“What we do is customise a treatment plan for each individual.
“The skin basically ages in a three-dimensional manner and, in order to keep results really natural, you need to address that three-dimensional change so we combine treatments.
“We’ve found that trying to address the changes in the different layers of the skin with a single treatment doesn’t work.
“For example, if you use dermal fillers with Ultherapy, you can get an amazing combined result and it looks very natural.
“Most women don’t want to look 20 when they're 40 – they want to look 41 when they're coming up to 50. They just want to look the right side of the decade.”

Treatments such as Ultherapy are a firm favourite with the likes of Jennifer Aniston, who is renowned for her natural, youthful looks.
Dr Dobbie added: “It’s a great treatment, which is used for lifting and tightening the skin and leaves skin plumper and fresher.
“We’ve had the treatment in the clinic for about 18 months and it’s a real favourite as there is no down-time.
“It’s been incredibly successful and is very much loved by a lot of celebrities.
“Jennifer Aniston has recently spoken about how Ultherapy is one of her favourite treatments.”
Clients aged anywhere between 30 and 70 are turning to non-surgical facelifts for natural-looking results.
Dr Dobbie explained: “It’s a single procedure which takes 60-90 minutes and lasts two to three years.
“The procedure can be uncomfortable but most clients say it is very tolerable.
“The discomfort is only during the treatment; afterwards there is no discomfort at all.
“There is no down-time - so no having to hide away or reorganising your life.
“The results work on two levels. It works to tighten the underlying muscle structure to the face and those results are immediate.
“Then it plumps up the skin by promoting collagen production and that takes up to six months to see the full results of that single treatment.”
If you would like to find out more information from the experts at Face and Body you can either visit: Face &amp; Body call them on 0131 226 9610 or alternatively you can leave your details below to Request a Call Back.
 
