AS Scottish troops prepare to leave Germany after 70 years, a war hero has relived the day he helped to liberate starving prisoners from a Nazi camp.
Great-grandad William Stein was one of the first British soldiers to arrive in Fallingbostel in northern Germany at the end of World War II.
They liberated the infamous Stalag XIB prisoner of war camp and the Army have been based there since then.
Last month, we told how troops from the Royal Scots Dragoon Guards and the Highlanders marched through the town as they said a final farewell ahead of the garrison being closed.
In recent years, many Scottish units, including the Black Watch and the Royal Highland Fusiliers, were based in Fallingbostel or trained there before deploying to war zones.
But during World War II, it was the site of three POW camps and more than 30,000 Soviet prisoners are buried there.
William, 89, said: “Seeing the story in the Record brought back my time in Fallingbostel.
“It was some place during the war. The Russians were in a terrible state, they had been treated really badly by the Germans.
 

“They tried to swarm over us, trying to grab the rations. We had to fire over their heads to get them to back off so we could get them help. I was only 18 at the time. It was hard to witness.
“Some of our boys who were prisoners were in a better state than we expected. They smartened themselves up as they knew we were arriving.”
Former lorry driver William, from Strathaven, Lanarkshire, served as a private with the King’s Own Scottish Borderers.
The regiment were deployed in the Low Countries in the autumn of 1944 and battled through into Germany, taking part in the capture of Bremen.
William recalled: “Our first big engagement was at the Battle for Walcheren Island.
“We jumped into the sea and I was crawling up the beach when I got some shrapnel in my thigh. Blood was running down my leg and sloshing around in my boot.
 “I was taken off the beach and was sent back to Ostend for treatment. 
“The man taking the wounded back was a guy from the Garngad in Glasgow. It was great to hear a Scottish accent.
“He would clear all the vehicles out the way saying, ‘I’ve got wounded men here.’
“He was as hard as nails. I thanked him for getting us back and he just said, ‘Nae bother.’
 

“I had a female surgeon, which was unusual at the time. I was fixed up and then went back to being a Bren gunner.”
 William said danger was ever present, adding: “We even had what they call ‘friendly fire’ these days. 
“A tank fired on a farmhouse that our lads were sleeping in. It was terrible.
“I was outside and dived down head first into a trench – that’s what saved me.
 “We had been sleeping in the farmhouse. We were always tired. We went without proper sleep for 95 days. As soon as we stopped anywhere, we would just go to the side of the road and drop off straightaway. 
“It has brought it all back to me seeing the boys coming back from Fallingbostel.”
 The Highlanders, or 4 SCOTS, will move to Catterick in Yorkshire and the Royal Scots Dragoon Guards to Fife later this summer. 
It’s part of plans to move all British troops in Germany back to UK bases by 2020.
