WET Wet Wet have performed their classic 1994 chart-topper Love Is All Around with honourary new member Romano, who is autistic.
The band recently played London’s Koko Camden as a fundraiser for the Nordoff Robbins charity, which is celebrating its 40th anniversary.
Marti Pellow, Graeme Clark, Neil Mitchell and Tommy Cunningham were also invited to drop into a nearby centre to see a music therapy session with the 11-year old.
It wasn’t long before Romano, who was born with autism and has global developmental delay, joined in with them on their biggest ever hit.
Marti Pellow said: “When we met Romano at his music therapy session, he wasn’t at all sure if he wanted us to join in or not but we saw for our very own eyes how banging that drum etc brought out his amazing personality.
“When we were asked at the end to join in, the power of music really kicked in as you can see from his reaction and ours.
“Truly inspiring and a reminder why we support the wonderful charity that is Nordoff Robbins Music Therapy.”
More showbiz news here
 

Wet Wet Wet manager Dougie Souness filmed the incredible performance and admitted the session was so emotional that those who attended, including Romano’s mum Tina Marie, were left fighting back the tears.
He said: “The band has been supporters of the Nordoff Robbins music therapy charity going back 20 years.
“They were in London to perform a fundraiser at the Koko venue and afterwards got an invite to go along to a nearby music therapy centre.
“It was there that they met Romano who had just started a therapy session.
“He seems a little uneasy at first, but the band started playing and after a while he settled down and he was asked if he would like to play along.
“Romano said ‘yes’ and there wasn’t a dry eye in the house.
“It wasn’t planned otherwise we would have had a professional camera set up with a tripod.
“Instead, I just filmed it with my own camera.”
Romano has been attending his nearest Nordoff Robbins charity centre for around five years and his music therapy sessions have helped him hugely with personal skills.
They enable him to build his confidence and help to reduce anxiety as well as developing cognitive skills and increasing self-awareness, speech development and physical co-ordination.
Tina Maria said: &quot;Thank you so so much to the wonderful Wet Wet Wet guys who were all so sweet and lovely and made my son’s day.
“He hasn’t stopped talking about you... from a very proud mummy.”
 

Wet Wet Wet has a long history with Nordoff Robbins dating back to when they themselves received a Silver Clef award for new music in 1988.
The band members were introduced to the inspiring work that the charity does, using music to help people express themselves and communicate.
Commenting on their latest fundraiser for the charity at Koko, Marti said “We get to do two things we love - play live to our fans and support a charity we have believed in since day one.
“The work Nordoff Robbins Music Therapy does is special and it works.
“They are so dedicated and we wanted to wish them happy birthday by putting on this show.”
Drummer Tommy Cunningham added: “Music has given us a lot in life, and it’s great to be able to use music to give something back, we are very proud of our association with Nordoff Robbins Music Therapy.”
The original version of the song Love Is All Around featured on the soundtrack to the film Four Weddings and a Funeral occupied the top spot for 15 weeks from May 29, 1994, before the band withdrew the single from shops, fearing that it had become over-exposed.
Wet Wet Wet are touring the UK next March with dates in Glasgow, Aberdeen and Inverness.
The band also plan to release a deluxe edition of their 1995 album, Picture This.
  To help the charity raise funds in Scotland, visit: https://www.justgiving.com/nrmt/ or Text SING40 &pound;3 to 70070 to donate &pound;3 to Nordoff Robbins Music Therapy in Scotland.  
 Text messages cost &pound;3 plus one message at your standard network rate. 

