Glasgow-based mutual Scottish Friendly has completed its takeover of Marine &amp; General Mutual (M&amp;GM).
The deal, to take over the UK's oldest active registered company, is Scottish Friendly's largest takeover to date, doubling its assets under management to more than &pound;2 billion.
M&amp;GM had reported in its 2013 annual report it was seeking a transfer to another organisation to secure its long-term future following the sale of its annuity division MGM Advantage to private equity firm, TDR Capital.
All M&amp;GM policy holders have now become members of Scottish Friendly as part of the deal.
Scottish Friendly members voted overwhelmingly to approve the deal at the annual general meeting in April, when the mutual reported funds under management had exceeded &pound;1 billion for the first time.
The mutual told shareholders the milestone had been reached on an eight per cent increase in funds under management last year to &pound;1.08 billion with sales up five per cent to &pound;21.6 million.
M&amp;GM members also voted overwhelmingly in favour of the takeover.
Scottish Friendly, which currently employs around 90 staff, said the M&amp;GM takeover will sit “comfortably within its current back office functions” with no “substantial increase in costs or headcount”.
Scottish Friendly chief executive, Fiona McBain, said: “We are delighted to welcome M&amp;GM policyholders and members to Scottish Friendly.
“The addition of M&amp;GM business to Scottish Friendly is a tangible outcome of our strategy to diversify and grow the business for the benefit of all our policyholders.
“The takeover of M&amp;GM has doubled Scottish Friendly’s assets under management to over &pound;2 billion and will give us additional economies of scale that can drive further efficiencies and increased value to all of our policyholders, including those transferring from M&amp;GM.”
Scottish Friendly was established in 1862 as the City of Glasgow Friendly Society and changed its name in October 1992 when it took over Scottish Friendly Assurance.
Its largest acquisition to date was its takeover of Scottish Legal Life in October 2007, at that time the UK's largest friendly society transfer of engagements which added more than 500,000 policies and &pound;170 million of assets.
Scottish Friendly's other takeovers in recent years have included Rational Shelley, Preston Operative, a book of life business from Pioneer, London, Aberdeen and Northern Mutual Assurance Society (LANMAS), and Royal Standard.
M&amp;GM was founded in 1852 as the UK Temperance &amp; General Provident Association and is Britain’s longest-registered company and holds the company registration number 00000006 (companies 1-5 no longer exist).
The company rebranded in 2008 as MGM Advantage with a focus on the retirement income market.
The following year the Society completed a transaction in which it closed to new business, sold its infrastructure to a new company established by private equity firm TDR Capital, and adopted the Marine &amp; General Mutual brand.
