A VILE rapist sentenced to life in prison for attacking seven women has taunted his victims from behind bars in a sick letter.
Evil Jerry McMurray, who preyed on his victims over a 16-year period, branded the women liars in a hate-filled rant sent to the Daily Record.
And in a bizarre outburst, he bleated that Police Scotland forced victims to make up stories about their ordeals at his hands.
But last night, furious victim Heather Ratcliffe branded him a monster and called for him to be banned from writing letters from his cell.
Her plea was backed by MSP Elaine Murray, Labour’s legal affairs spokeswoman at Holyrood, who said sex offenders should not be allowed to harass their victims from prison.
Heather, who has bravely waived her right to anonymity, said: “I am absolutely infuriated by this sad pathetic excuse of a man still crying that he’s the victim in all this.
“He is guiltier than the devil himself and prison has clearly not brought it to light that he has destroyed a lot of women’s lives.”
McMurray was already being investigated over a series of poison-pen letters sent to victims before he wrote to the Record.
 

Heather said: “Jail must be a holiday for him if he’s allowed to write like this to his victims. I have had to put up with this law about his human rights - where he’s allowed to write to me, my dad and another victim and now the newspaper.
“He’s allowed a TV, visits and allowed to get out for an hour a day.
“I can’t watch TV without seeing something to remind me of him or go out as I have post-traumatic stress disorder due to dragging the past up and facing that monster in court.
“I am glad I did as he is locked up but what about my rights and the others?”
Heather was repeatedly raped by brutal McMurray when she was just 17. She was held hostage by him for four months and only escaped his clutches after piecing together a smashed mobile phone to call for help.
She added: “We told the truth. He is a pathetic man who gets off in locking women up, abusing them and in a sad twisted way he still believes he’s no done nothing wrong.
“I hope he rots and wish the letters would stop.
“The best thing he can do is face up to his crimes. He is an animal.”
Last night, politician Murray echoed Heather’s demand for a crackdown on poison-pen letters from behind bars.
 

 
She said: “This absolutely shocking story will horrify people across Scotland. The Scottish Prison Service should review their procedures as this behaviour surely must constitute a form of further harassment.
“Prisoners should not be allowed to make victims’ lives a misery from behind bars.”
McMurray, 34, from Fife, was jailed earlier this year at the High Court in Glasgow and will not be released until he is considered to no longer be a risk to the public.
But in a letter to the Daily Record, McMurray refused to show remorse for his appalling crimes and blamed his victims and police instead.
He said he wanted to “set the Record straight” and ranted about lie detector tests not being allowed in Scots courts.
McMurray, who raped, assaulted and abused the women at various locations in Fife between 1997 and 2013, said none of the victims would have said anything about him if police hadn’t visited them.
In the letter, which is littered with spelling mistakes, McMurray wrote: “None of these women had phoned the police or went to the police for to report any of this there selfs as yous herd in court that it was the police that had went around all of the women and told them lies about me and thats when all these women came out with all this cr** about me and claiming I did this and that to them all of these years ago.”

He said he was “maintaining my innocences in this cases of historical abuse against these women” and claimed there was no physical, forensic or medical evidence to prove his victims had been raped.
McMurray also whined about the jury who convicted him of 14 charges, including rape, abduction and assault, during his trial last August.
He wrote: “They all only did say this to the police after they went round and told all these women lies about me.
“But the jury didn’t think of anything like that as well before they convicted me.”
McMurray is already being investigated after his victims received a series of letters accusing them of lying.
The author claimed to be a friend of McMurray’s but the handwriting was similar to the letter the Daily Record has now received. Both are filled with the same spelling mistakes, have random words capitalised and grammatical errors.
In one letter sent to victim Heather, he also demanded she take a lie detector test.
Police believe McMurray is behind the foul-mouthed rants to Heather and are still investigating.
Try our quick news quiz below:

