FOOTBALL legends John Hartson and Willie Henderson are to donate prizes this week to raise vital funds for cancer research.
The Celtic and Rangers legends will hand over signed jerseys to be raffled off by the Hard Rock Cafe’s “His and Hers” charity campaign.
The restaurant annually sells pink and blue wristbands to to help fund male and female cancer charities, with both causes close to Hartson and Henderson’s hearts.
John set up the John Hartson Foundation in 2010 after his battle with testicular cancer, which spread to his brain and lungs. He had ignored lumps on his testicle and the dad-of-five has championed early diagnosis and support for families ever since.




Willie pushes the Michelle Henderson Cervical Cancer Trust, set up by his daughter during treatment for the disease. She passed away on her 28th birthday and the trust now raises awareness and funds for hospital equipment, medicines and support for women.
The pair will be handing over Rangers and Celtic tops signed by players from the last 30 years and will go up for the raffle. Last year the charity drive in Glasgow raised &pound;3,800 for two charities.
Raffle tickets can be purchased through the month at Hard Rock Cafe Glasgow.
Speaking at his charity golf match in April, John, 40, said: “I was 34 when my cancer was diagnosed and at one point I thought I’d never see my 40th birthday. I had 67 courses of chemotherapy and two brain operations which could easily have been avoided if I’d known more about the signs of testicular cancer.”
In 2014 Willie Henderson trekked 100 miles through an African desert in memory of his daughter.
The football legend battled through sand dunes in the Namib Desert Challenge to raise thousands of pounds.
Afterwards the Ibrox idol said: “I said it was going to be the hardest thing I’d ever done and it was worse than that – but I got there in the end.
“People may have thought I might have become accustomed to it training with Jock Wallace and Rangers in the dunes at Gullane but that was like running on a pavement compared to the Namib Desert.”
 



