 Former Brentford boss Mark Warburton has confirmed that he has held talks about the manager's job at Rangers, one of a number of clubs he has spoken to. 
 &quot;We've had an informal meeting,&quot; the 52-year-old told BBC Scotland. 
 &quot;It's important to see if there's a chemistry, the parties get on and your football philosophies are aligned.&quot; 
 Warburton and assistant David Weir, the former Rangers captain, are believed to be on a list of possible candidates along with current boss Stuart McCall. 
 The former Enfield and Boreham Wood defender said he was &quot;flattered&quot; to be considered, given &quot;the history of the club and the global fan base&quot;. 
 &quot;Any job that myself and Davie Weir would look at would be about going in, having a project and being able to add value,&quot; he said. 
 &quot;But I'm sure a club like Rangers has got a big search process under way. 
 &quot;I'd like to think we have shown the attributes required to do a good job at a football club. 
 &quot;Whoever comes in must appreciate the size of the task in terms of the history of the club and where they have to be. 
 &quot;This is not just about steadying; this is about making significant progress in a designated period of time.&quot; 
 The Ibrox side will be in the Scottish Championship next season after losing the Premiership play-off final against Motherwell. 
 McCall's side lost 6-1 over two legs against his former club, allowing the Fir Park outfit to preserve their Premiership status. 
 The 50-year-old former Rangers player returned to Ibrox as manager in March, taking over from Kenny McDowall, and guided the side through the play-off quarter-final and semi-final after they finished third in the Championship. 
 He has stated his desire to stay in the job. 
 Warburton joined Brentford as first-team coach in 2011 and took over as manager following Uwe Rosler's departure in late 2013. 
 He was joined a week after his appointment by Weir. 
 Promotion from League One to the Championship followed at the end of season 2013-14. 
 However, the Bees announced in February that Warburton would depart at the end of the season. Dutchman Marinus Dijkhuizen was appointed Brentford's new head coach on Monday. 
