CITY figures have paid tribute to former MP and Rector of Glasgow University, Charles Kennedy, who died yesterday at the age of 55.
Though firmly a man of the Highlands, he maintained a connection with Glasgow over more than three decades.
He studied for a Masters of Arts in Politics and Philosophy at the University of Glasgow, who lowered their flag on Tuesday to half mast in tribute. Ultimately just a short time before he would be elected MP at the age of 23, he joined the Social Democrats, the Dialectic Society, was president of the Glasgow University Union from 1980 to 1981 and won the British Observer Mace for University Debating in 1982.
In 2008, he was elected Rector with 46 per cent of the vote, and was re-elected in 2011 - the first time a rector had gained a second term since former Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli in the 1870s.
But he also inspired campaigners and young Liberal Democrat politicians over the years, who mourned his passing this week.
 

James Harrison, recent LibDem candidate for Glasgow North West, said: “I was twice on his campaign team when he successfully stood to be Glasgow University Rector. And I subsequently worked with him for 2 years while I served on the executive of the Students Representative Council at the university (as vice president, then President).
“Charles was always very kind and was dedicated to his role as Rector. I remember how much he inspired the new students each year as he delivered his welcome address in the Bute Hall every Freshers' Week. He inspired the students to work hard, but more importantly to enjoy their experience at the university he loved so well. It was a privilege to know him and I am utterly heartbroken by the news.”
Charles Kennedy’s previous speeches at the Freshers’ Week can be found at www.gust.tv
 

Former LibDem Glasgow regional MSP Robert Brown said: “I am totally devastated by the death of Charles Kennedy – and I am sure my feelings will be shared by many people in Scotland across the political divide.
“Charles was one of those rare people who was totally genuine; he was a private person but made other people feel special. He had a rare gift of putting political and personal truths into language that people related to.
“I have known him since he was a student at Glasgow University, through his time as a young MP and later as one of the most engaging – and successful – of Liberal Democrat leaders. His principled opposition to the disastrous Iraq War was something which defined the politics of an era and a generation.
“I had the great privilege of speaking for the Liberal Democrats at the huge demonstration against the Iraq War of 100,000 people at the SECC in Glasgow – Charles Kennedy spoke against the war on the same day to the rally of an amazing million people in London. A tremendous reminder of the common sentiments on important issues across the United Kingdom.
“Charles Kennedy’s voice and his cheerful and gentle optimism will be sorely missed.”

Rev Kelvin Holdsworth, Provost of St Mary’s Cathedral in Glasgow, said: &quot;It has been extraordinary to see the outpouring of emotion coming from people in relation to Charles Kennedy. Unusually amongst politicians, people trusted him despite his obvious flaws.
&quot;Although initially far more hesitant about opposing the Iraq War than many will remember, Charles Kennedy's eventual opposition to the war was the choice he made which defined his legacy. That principled opposition drew many directly into politics and led me to stand proudly under a liberal banner in several elections. Politics seemed easier then.
&quot;It is clear though that Charles Kennedy was not just about policies and principles - people genuinely liked him. There are many from the University of Glasgow for whom Charles Kennedy was the first politician that they ever knew as a person.
&quot;Charles Kennedy's death is a further agonising tragedy for the liberal tradition in the United Kingdom.&quot;
 

Former MP Jo Swinson said: &quot;Charles Kennedy was much-loved within the LibDem family, and also far beyond. His sharp wit made him a formidable opponent in debate, but he combined it with a kindness and warmth that endeared him to people across the parties and across the country.
&quot;Deeply committed to the values of liberalism, he showed great courage championing positions against the political mainstream, such as over the war in Iraq.
&quot;Charles had an amazing ability to connect with people, as was again evident when he visited East Dunbartonshire just before the election to support my campaign. It was characteristic of his generosity that even when facing a tough battle in his own patch, he spent time helping his colleagues. He will be hugely missed in our political life. My heart goes out to Donald and the rest of his family as they face this tragic loss.&quot;
Breffni O’Connor, President of the Students’ Representative Council, said: “Charles served as Rector of the University of Glasgow for two terms and was a true friend to the students . He worked hard to protect our interests and made sure that the student voice was heard at the highest level within the University. He was a very principled politician and a great activist on our behalf, who spoke passionately about his opinions and this University, whether in the Bute Hall or in the GUU Debating Chamber. His legacy will continue as we remember his commitment to the role and passion for the students here.”
Rory Slater, GUU President, added: “Glasgow University Union is tremendously sad to hear of the passing of Charles Kennedy. As a former GUU President and Rector of the University of Glasgow,Charles was always a great friend of the Union and will be greatly missed by all. His contributions to our Union and across the wider campus will never be forgotten. The Union extends its deepest sympathies to his family and friends.”

Principal and Vice-Chancellor of Glasgow University, Professor Anton Muscatelli, was two years behind Charles Kennedy as a student in the 1980s.
He said: “He said publicly and wrote as well that he enjoyed representing students tremendously. He enjoyed being part of the university and we worked very well together, but most of all he enjoyed being with students and representing their views to management.
“I think the students held him in high regard because of the fact that he was so down to earth. Some public figures can be quite distant but Charles was not like that: he was very affable and quite humble and that is why people found him so easy to relate to.”
