As McDonald’s prepare to open the doors to their new restaurant at Glasgow’s Silverburn retail centre, customers can expect a taste of the future.
The new 3,800-square-foot outlet – located in the Winter Garden area of the centre – will feature one of McDonald’s new state-of-the-art designs, along with digital menu boards and tablet computers on some of the tables for customers to use while they dine.
It will be one of the first McDonald’s in the area to offer customers a choice between traditional till service or new self-order kiosks where they can browse the menu and order at their leisure.
Silverburn franchise owner Jim McLean, who also operates a McDonald’s in Thornliebank, has been busy recruiting for the new restaurant and has just filled all 80 positions available.
And he’s committed to making sure the experience for staff is as good as it is for customers.
He said: “McDonald’s believes in investing in people and providing them with the opportunity to undertake excellent training programmes and further their career opportunities.
“I’m always keen to encourage my employees to broaden their skills and gain qualifications whilst continuing to deliver a fantastic experience to our customers.”
Jim became a franchisee in July 2013 and recently expanded his business to include the Silverburn store, which is due to open a week before his two-year anniversary with McDonald’s.
He added: “The store opening is a very exciting moment for me and my family.
“I had always wanted to set up a business myself and had always been impressed by the McDonald’s franchise model so when the opportunity arose I was quick to seize it.
“The experience so far has been better than I could have ever wished for and I’m sure things will only continue to improve.”
McDonald’s Director of Franchising for Scotland, Alistair Reid, said,“We are delighted to have been able to create over 80 new jobs in Glasgow, taking the total number of people employed by McDonald’s across the city to approximately 1600.”
David Pierotti, General Manager at Silverburn said the opening of a McDonald’s store in the retail centre will please shoppers.
He said: “The opening of McDonald’s in Silverburn highlights our on-going commitment to providing a diverse food offering for our customers to enjoy.
“McDonald’s has been one of our most requested retailers to date, so we’re delighted that we’ve been able to attract the world-leading food chain to Silverburn.” 
  
Open 6am till midnight. 7 days.
 
