TIMING, timing, timing.
It’s all about timing in showbiz.
And boy do these boys have a sense of timing.
Yes, on the first day of June, as hurricane winds batter Glasgow and the rain floods down the street, 5 Seconds of Summer roll into town to put the warmest of warm glows round the Hydro.
 
Just don’t, don’t EVER call them a boy band, okay?
Because these brilliant pop-punks from Down Under have more than a touch of grunge about them.
They are - for the uninitiated - a chisel-jawed foursome who speak to Nirvana fans as well as 1D - quite a feat in itself.
Then there was the whole 500 miles rendition behind the scenes earlier..
 
 
500 miles pic.twitter.com/f9pvaBjuer

And not for nothing is one of their numbers a cover of Green Day’s modern punk anthem American Idiot - delivered tonight with so much gusto you think they might blow the roof off.
Michael, Calum, Luke and Ashton are half way through the first leg of three their giant Rock Out With Your Socks Out tour (that’s ROWYSO if you’re in the know).
Quite clearly, they're on the way to world domination - as 13,000 berserk fans here tonight testifies.
Yet little more than a year ago, the question was 5 who? Not now it ain’t, not with 6.7million Twitter followers and counting.
 

Drummer Ashton is first on stage - or rather, a mechanical platform at the back of the stage upon which he towers over the other three when they bound on a few seconds later.
 
And then it's straight into a fast and frantic blast of End Up Here, then into Out of My Limit, then Heartbreaker and Voodoo Doll - at which point Ashton comes down to earth as his podium is lowered.
The pace is electric. The crowd is breathless. You've got to hand it to these boys: they're working this massive venue like it was their front room.
 
HELL YEAH GLASGOW THAT WAS BREEZY pic.twitter.com/YFs1JQ935p

The banter's good too and then we have a three way split in the audience for a raucous sing-along before the place is rocking to Don't Stop - an anthem familiar to even the least cool school-run mum or dad.
Then it's Disconnected - yes, these guys sing about girls (of course) and snogging (of course) but there's plenty of angst too - which is part of the appeal.
There's a rocking cover of The Proclaimers' 500 Miles (just in case anyone wasn't stood up), then it's Kiss Me Kiss Me and, to finish the set, the place explodes to She Looks So Perfect.

For the encore, they come back on stage in kilts for Good Girls and This Is What I Like About You.
Barnstorming, it's the only word for it.
And after an hour and three quarters that’s flies so fast it feels like 5 minutes if not quite 5 seconds, it’s back to battling the howling wind outside.
Rock With My Socks Off?
Not in this weather thanks, lads .. I’ll keep ‘em on if you don’t mind.
But am I convert? Too right I am. One hundred per cent a convert.
Now, where’s that old Nirvana t-shirt?
 

 
Try our quick showbiz quiz below:

