Fine dodgers are being warned: “We’re coming to get you.”
The Scottish Courts and Tribunals Service is clamping down on people who refuse to pay penalties issued in court.
And, in many cases, money is being taken straight from people’s bank accounts after they failed to pay their dues.
The cash punishments, which range from &pound;45 to &pound;200, were imposed at Paisley Sheriff and Justice of the Peace courts for a range of offences including breach of the peace, misuse of drugs, road traffic breaches, and not having a TV licence.
The Scottish Courts and Tribunals Service (SCTS) says it has a range of measures in place to ensure fines’ payment including taking money directly from wages, bank accounts or benefits.
Under tough legislation, defaulters can also have their cars clamped and wind-up paying additional costs to retrieve their vehicles. Ultimately, these unclaimed cars can even be sold or scrapped.
SCTS interim chief operations officer David Fraser said: “If you have an outstanding fine, you should pay it now or you could be the next person in Paisley to see your bank or employer approached.”
Taking cash straight from bank accounts only happens as a last resort, says the courts service.
Warning letters are issued to offenders to give them the chance to arrange payments with fines enforcement officers before action is taken.
A new report shows that fines’ collection rates remain strong with 87 per cent of the value of sheriff court fines imposed between April, 2011 and March, 2014, either being paid or on track to be paid through instalments.
Anyone who has been issued with a financial penalty in court can pay their fines online through the secure website at www.scotcourts.gov.uk/payyourfine
Only fines which involve the endorsement of a driving licence with penalty points cannot be paid electronically.
Other traffic offences such as some police traffic tickets and penalties issued by the Safety Camera Partnerships for speeding or running a red light, are also exempt from the online payment system.
In these cases, offenders can post their licence to the Scottish Courts and Tribunals Service, Central Processing Unit, PO Box 23, Glasgow, G59 9DA or take it in person to any Scottish court.
