A CELEBRITY auctioneer who stalked a former Miss Scotland has admitted another incident fuelled by his possessiveness.
William Paterson was described as a &quot;controlling, jealous&quot; lover when he appeared in court yesterday.
Paterson had already been found guilty last week of stalking 27-year old beauty Jay Goodwillie, whom he romanced for two years, despite being a married father-of-three.
Stirling Sheriff Court heard that in the new incident, committed while he was on bail, the victim was his wife.
The court heard last week that Paterson, 44, had repeatedly accused Miss Goodwillie, now a special constable and trainee solicitor, of cheating, and was possessive and jealous of her friendships with other men, however innocent.
In February and March last year, after Miss Goodwillie finally dumped him, he tracked down another man she'd kissed in a bar, messaged him on Facebook, and phoned him up at work pretending to be a policeman warning him to stay away from her.
He also contacted one of her former male friends on Facebook, asked him whether he'd had sex with her, and quizzed him.
Then, just before she was due to go on duty as special constable, he messaged her: &quot;Go out and get stabbed tonight, you selfish cow.&quot;
Today the same court heard that while he was on bail awaiting trial over his behaviour towards Miss Goodwillie, he locked his wife Lynette out of their house in up-market Dunster Road, Stirling.
He pleaded guilty to behaving in a threatening and abusive manner likely to cause a reasonable person fear and alarm at the Dunster Road address on February 22nd [2015], in that he locked Lynette and a three year old boy -- who cannot be identified for legal reasons -- out of the family home, refused to allow them entry, and then struggled violently with two police officers who were sent to the scene, all while on bail.
Frazer McCready, defending, said Paterson was due to appear for sentence on June 17th over the stalking case, and reports had already been ordered.
Sheriff Simon Collins asked whether there was any &quot;linkage&quot; in the new case to the complainer or anyone else in the stalking case.
Depute fiscal Gail Russell replied: &quot;There's no linkage to the complainer, but there is a link relating to the possessive nature of the accused, which led to this incident happening, as it were.&quot;
Sheriff Collins declined to hear the facts, and said: &quot;I think I should allow the incidents to be dealt with together.&quot;
He deferred sentence until June 17th, for Paterson to be sentenced for both offences, and for breaching bail, by the senior resident sheriff at Stirling, Sheriff Wyllie Robertson.
Last week, at the end of the stalking case, Sheriff Robertson branded Paterson &quot;deluded, controlling, jealous and possessive&quot;.
He also deferred consideration of a Crown request for a non-harassment order, requiring him to stay away from Miss Goodwillie for five years.
The court was told Paterson had been a professional auctioneer since 1988 specialising in livestock and agricultural sales, with over 20 years of doing charity work.
Clients included the Manchester United Foundation, Glasgow Rangers Foundation, The Gordon Ramsay Gala Ball, Duncan Bannatyne Questionable Ball, Glasgow Rangers Football Club, West Sound Radio Cash for Kids, Erskine Hospital.
His website added: &quot;He is well known throughout Scotland for his charity auctions and has raised hundreds of thousands of pounds for some of the most well known charities in Scotland including Scottish Spina Bifida Assocation, The Prince and Princess of Wales Hospice, Nordoff Robbins Music Therapy, Marie Curie Cancer Care, Bobath Scotland, and The Variety Club of Great Britain, in addition to numerous private and corporate events.&quot;
 Try your hand at our news quiz 

