YOUNGSTERS at Scotland's newest hospital will get the chance to star in their own cartoon.The new Royal Hospital for Sick Children in Glasgow offers a waiting area for outpatients second to none in Europe, with multiple interactive activities lining the walls.There are dens to investigate with little surprises: A table that plays music, a touchscreen colouring-in book, a ceiling composed of fibre optic stars.Inquisitive minds can try to navigate balls around labyrinthian marble runs by turning a series of handles. The more artistic may choose to draw on the graffiti wall. For all, there is a screen where your own image will appear and embed you in a story. Try to open windows, take apples from the tree and pop the balloons - but watch out for the shark.This variety of entertainment is the result of a collaboration which began when NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde started planning the new children's hospital for the city and Yorkhill Children's Charity decided they wanted to make a difference by enhancing the waiting areas.Glasgow Science Centre was brought in to lead the design and all the features in the outpatient waiting area were funded to the tune of &pound;1m by the Hugh Fraser Foundation, which was established by Lord Fraser of Allander with the proceeds of shares from his business empire which included Harrods and The House of Fraser.Dr Stephen Breslin, chief executive of Glasgow Science Centre, said: &quot;This is our world - developing exciting, interactive, engaging exhibits. That is what we did within the science centre and it was a privilege to apply those skills and experiences in a setting as important as the children's hospital.&quot;The vision was driven by the desire to create an area that removed the anxiety and stress you typically associate with hospital visiting areas. What we really wanted to create was an environment where children did not feel like they were in hospital.&quot;Part of the new South Glasgow University Hospital on the Southern General site, the new children's hospital fully opens to patients on June 15 replacing the current facility at Yorkhill. Amy Ovens, 11, will be among the first children to undergo an operation in the new building. Given a sneak preview of the facilities with fellow patient Lauren Cosgrove, 9, Amy said: &quot;It was not what I expected. It is really good.&quot;Her mum, Lynn, said: &quot;I think Amy will be less apprehensive about coming here now she has seen what it is like. It is so clear that it will take her mind off all the waiting around.&quot;Lauren's mum, Laura Paterson said: &quot;Sometimes you will have an appointment in the morning and then it is a few hours before another appointment. This will certainly pass the time for Lauren and me.&quot;Special easy-to-clean materials have been used in the designs including the brightly coloured seats made in Belgium. Staff were involved in evaluating the different ideas, helping whittle down the best from a shortlist of 100.Shona Cardle, chief executive of Yorkhill Children's Charity, said: &quot;I am really delighted with it. It has been nine years since we had the initial discussions with the Hugh Fraser Foundation so it has been a long time and quite complex at times.&quot;The foundation has funded the project in memory of Sir Hugh's sister, Ann Lewis Fraser, who was a teacher and a trustee of the foundation. Dr Kenneth Chrystie, chairman of the foundation, said she would have been very pleased with the end result.Minor technical glitches - like the reflected sun making its own doodles on the touch screen graffiti wall - are currently being ironed out.Similar features, on a smaller scale, are also being installed in the waiting rooms for the accident and emergency department and diagnostics.