IT WAS great to be able to announce some of the details this week of the Glasgow and Clyde Valley City Deal.
At the heart of the City Deal is a &pound;1.13 billion fund that will pay for some 20 major projects across our city and region, including a long awaited rail link to Glasgow Airport, the regeneration of Sighthill, investment in the Calton and Barras, and improved drainage across Glasgow.
The City Deal will also clean up derelict land so that it can be developed for housing and industry, attracting some &pound;3.3 billion of private sector investment.
Crucially, the projects will create 15,000 jobs during the construction phase, plus 28,000 new permanent jobs across Glasgow and our city region.
The City Deal partnership between Glasgow and our seven sister-councils across Clyde Valley, together with the UK and Scottish governments, shows what can be achieved when we are free to make decisions about our local economy, rather than depending on remote central government.
Cities are the powerhouses of the national economy. We will not achieve our ambitions for a prosperous and fairer Glasgow and Scotland if we simply transfer powers from an over-bearing Whitehall to a centralising Holyrood.
If devolution is good enough for our parliament in Edinburgh then it's good enough for Glasgow too. The City Deal is an important start to what should be the next phase in the story of devolution -namely, transferring powers from Holyrood to our cities and communities.
***
CONGRATULATIONS to Glasgow Warriors on their fantastic victory last weekend in the Guinness Pro12 final in Belfast.
Winning the final was a cause of celebration across Glasgow. But the manner of the victory was a source of real pride.
Gregor Townsend's team scored four tries and played magnificent, attacking rugby. Their loyal and growing fan-base have much to look forward to as the Warriors continue to grow and develop into a top class team.
***
ON Saturday I had the pleasure of being at Glasgow Airport to welcome the arrival of the first of Westjet's direct daily flights between Glasgow and Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.
Glasgow has very close ties with Canada. Indeed the first Canadian Prime Minister, Sir John A Macdonald was born in Merchant City.
Today, Canada is Glasgow's third largest international market with 37,000 trips annually, generating &pound;12 million per year for our city's economy.
It is hoped that we can build on these bonds and foster more trade, tourism and cultural links to the benefit of Glasgow, Scotland and Canada.
This new direct flight is a major boost to this effort and further opens up the whole of the North American market.
***
ON behalf of the Labour Group on Glasgow City Council I would like to convey sincere condolences to the family, close friends and Liberal Democrat colleagues of the late Charles Kennedy.
We all share in the sense of premature loss of a social democratic politician of huge talent and integrity, and a person whose humanity and wit endeared him to the general public in a way that very few politicians could ever hope to achieve.
May he rest in peace.
