A SCOTS schoolboy has become the envy of his friends after playing guitar live on stage with Aussie pop punk band 5SOS.
Bradley Andrews, 16, from Shettleston, Glasgow, admits he’s still in shock after being plucked from the audience at Glasgow’s SSE Hydro to play alongside his heroes.
The sixth year pupil at Whitehill Secondary, who helps to run a website to support the band, said: “It’s made my life and I’m still in shock.
“I don’t play guitar but I did for the first time in front of 13,000 people.”
 
Bradley from @Tha5SOSFamily on stage with 5sos #ROWSOGlasgow || our pal kirsty pic.twitter.com/3TxhQbvUe9

Bradley had been standing in the “golden pod” area surrounding the stage when the band decided to pick someone from the crowd. Bradley couldn’t believe it when the band’s Michael Clifford picked him.
He said: “When Michael from the band first pointed at me to come up I didn’t think he meant me. I looked behind me and was in shock while all my friends were jumping up and down.
“I said to Michael I didn’t know how to play and he said ‘alright fine’ and said he’d help me.
 

 
“I was on stage for a couple of minutes and burst out laughing while I was doing it and asked for a hug at the end.
“I just played guitar in front of 13,000 so it was no problem to ask for that.”
Superfan Bradley met the band briefly before last night’s gig at a record signing in HMV Glasgow and he saw them support One Direction last year.
He said: “I’d paid a lot of get into the golden pod and had been to see them earlier in the day. I love their songs and the fact they are nice people.
 

 
“I update fan site accounts to support them along with my friend and just try to help fans to meet them but I never expected to be picked for this.”
The band added a tartan touch to their sell-out gig by wearing kilts for their final number and singing the Proclaimers classic 500 Miles.
Band member Calum Hood, who is half Scottish, looked right at home.
 
500 miles pic.twitter.com/f9pvaBjuer

Try our quick showbiz quiz below:

