HE IS one of our most &shy;accomplished actors, so it’s no surprise Peter Mullan says he “owes everything” to the BBC.
But this week the star of Harry Potter and Sunshine on Leith said his faith in the BBC was shaken by its “horrendous bias” during the independence referendum last year.
He said: “To see the BBC used as a political cudgel against a legitimate democratic movement really broke my heart.”
Mullan is regularly employed by the BBC. This week he will star in its new drama Stonemouth, based on a book by the late Iain Banks.
It’s not in his personal interest to bite the hand that casts him but he has spoken out all the same.
Mullan’s heartbreak is shared by many Scots.
 Some protested outside the BBC building in Glasgow – only to be dismissed by unionist politicians as a “mob” attempting to silence an impartial broadcaster. 
But this is not an issue for conspiracy theorists or hotheads. There is now a considerable body of academic and journalistic evidence that the BBC, like much other London-based media, views Scotland through a lens clouded with metropolitan ignorance.

Professor John Robertson of the University of the West of Scotland carefully analysed the BBC coverage of the referendum. His statistics showed far more news items attacked the Yes than the No campaign.
Online journalist George Ponsonby’s book “London Calling: How the BBC Stole the Referendum” also dissects the coverage. He looks forensically at the last two weeks of the campaign, after a poll by the YouGov organisation showed the Yes side ahead.
He documents how the BBC “went into overdrive”, transferring much of their current affairs personnel from London to Glasgow.
A speech in Kirkcaldy by Gordon Brown, claiming to offer “Home Rule” to Scotland if we voted No, was broadcast repeatedly. But Brown was not a member of the Government and had no power to deliver.
Political editor Nick Robinson claimed Alex Salmond had failed to answer his question on the alleged relocation of RBS jobs to London should we vote Yes.
 YouTube showed Salmond had answered the question in detail, but Robinson’s report cut that bit . 
 

Ponsonby’s book is peppered with many examples – you can buy it at www.londoncalling.scot – but perhaps more than these specifics is the underlying attitude.
This was summarised well by the respected former BBC presenter Lesley Riddoch, who observed that pronouncements from the UK Government were treated as “tablets of stone”, while evidence from the SNP and Yes campaign was treated with scepticism.
The referendum campaign is over, but has anything changed? The SNP is now the UK’s third biggest Westminster party. It should be asked to comment on every story coming out of Westminster – just as the Lib Dems once were.
 There is no evidence the BBC has addressed this realignment. 
Interviewers continue to take their line of questioning from unionist parties who were all soundly thrashed last month at the polls.
One example.

The opposition parties made the “threat of a second referendum” a key campaigning tactic.
Broadcasters, including the BBC, made this a key part of their agenda too.
They repeatedly asked Nicola Sturgeon to rule out a referendum when she very clearly said none was on the cards.
One has to ask why.
 Scottish voters were far more concerned by Tory austerity than another indy vote. 
They were turned off by the unionist message.
The BBC should take note.
Voters are also viewers, who can turn off too.
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

