IT WAS the biggest live music event Channel 4 had ever broadcast – beaming a whole day of television from Glasgow into living rooms from Cornwall to Carrickfergus.
A quarter of a million people came together 25 years ago today to celebrate the Dear Green Place’s European City of Culture status with one big free hoolie.
From stages on George Square, Glasgow Green, the Broomielaw and People’s Palace, the biggest live telly production ever hosted north of the Border was broadcast across the home nations.
The marathon bill was strong on Scottish flavour. Big Country, at No1 in the charts, lined up with Deacon Blue, Aztec Camera, Texas, Wet Wet Wet, The Average White Band, The Associates, John Martyn, Hue &amp; Cry and Goodbye Mr Mackenzie among others.
Bellshill’s Sheena Easton, then an LA-based multi-million dollar international superstar, was invited back only to have her new mid-Atlantic accent greeted with boos and missiles. Although now part of Glasgow lore, it’s a dubious accolade, apocryphal or otherwise.
Sheena vowed never to return. But many others did.
The event was a clarion call that Glasgow was changing, wriggling free of its reputation as a city pegged back by post-industrial decline and standing tall against political neglect.
A quarter of a century later, we look back on a ground-breaking TV event and the most ambitious free live music festival Scotland has ever seen.
We reveal why the police banned one band from the line-up for fear of sectarian trouble, which major American rock star begged to play in secret and how the headline act’s anger over the closure of the Ravenscraig steelworks prompted a fiery rant on stage.
THE singer had enjoyed a No1 hit with her former group, in the shape of the song Perfect, but was still terrified about performing.
She said: “My band Fairground Attraction had just split and I was scared witless and overcompensated by bringing a huge band of various folk including a metal guitarist.
“I got through it and Michael Stipe, who remembered me from years before, gave me a big kiss and my sister fainted.
&quot;We all stayed up and played music ‘til the next morning – me, Roddy Frame, Billy Bragg, various party animals who my ex-husband tried to out-party – but being French he had no chance against the folkie rock and rollers. He was sick for three days.
&quot;Politically, I had no clue – I was a child of a working family and I knew who was against us or for us. I didn’t know anything about politics then except that I hated Thatcher and snobs as all families I knew did.”
THE Deacon Blue frontman closed the giant party under a sky bursting with fireworks to the tune of his anthem Dignity.
But he surprised everyone, including his band, by criticising not the Tories, but the Labour Party, as the Ravenscraig steelworks in Motherwell prepared to close.
He said: “This concert is for the people of Glasgow who have no homes to go to.”
He then dedicated a song to “the people of Motherwell and Ravenscraig who soon won’t be able to afford a home, and to the people of Scotland who have been lied to and sold down the river by the Labour party who don’t ask questions on their behalf in Westminster”.
A quarter of a century on, Labour have just one seat in Scotland.
Ricky said: “Dick Gaughan once told me that he was watching with Campbell Christie (the then general secretary of the STUC) and he said something like, ‘Maybe not here..’ when I said what I did.

“The fact that anyone thought that was probably part of the reason I did say it.
“The political opposition just seemed to cave in to Ravenscraig’s closure. These were huge losses for Scotland – you can’t have a country without manufacturing.
“Our expectations were rising then and weren’t being met by political leadership. Now it seems that has changed after last year. People thought about the kind of place they want to live in. Everything’s up for grabs.
“You can easily get caught up in the emotions of a gig. We tapped into a sense of turmoil at the time as a band, brushed against those things and it became part of our identity. There was genuine anger and disappointment and I wouldn’t have said what I did if I didn’t feel it round about me.”
 

THE star of TV comedy Burnistoun may have been just 13 years old at the time but he fondly remembers the city being filled with music.
He said: “My strongest memory is of seeing The Associates live – they were a band I’d grown up hearing, thanks to my sisters.
“Almost every time I’m in George Square I think of Billy Mackenzie up there, how cool he looked and how amazing he sounded. We wandered around for the rest of the day, catching wee bands like Hugh Reed and the Velvet Underpants somewhere down by the Clydeside. But I was in a daze after Billy Mackenzie.
 “It was an amazing gift for a wee guy, to see a legend smack bang in the middle of the city,  for free. 
“It was a beautiful day. There was music everywhere.”
 

MEDIA man Stuart was behind the broadcast with his fledgling production company Big Star. Alongside live music event organisers Regular Music, he and business partner Don Coutts drew up a wish list of bands.
He said: “It was the biggest stretch of live broadcasting Channel 4 had ever done and was the first live music event to be broadcast in NICAM stereo. Everything went out on the main channel. There was no E4.
&quot;We also made short films to use between the live music, by folk like Paul McGuigan, Bernard Rudden and Jim Gillespie who have gone on to have careers making big films.
“We wanted The Pogues to play, but the police feared it would become a Rangers/Celtic thing and worried that any bands associated with the Irish rebel community might mean some folk took it as an invite to throw bottles.

&quot;A senior officer, who said he was a Pogues fan, said they couldn’t play. Nobody thought folk would just throw stuff at Sheena Easton instead.
“We had production offices at Templeton Carpet Factory. Don and I were in late one night when the phone rang. It was REM’s manager. He passed the phone to Michael Stipe who asked to play one of the wee stages. He was going out with Natalie Merchant from 10,000 Maniacs, she was playing. He performed to just a few hundred folk on the Broomielaw, just as he was about to hit the height of his fame.
“As live producers in a truck in the east end, taking feeds from all around the city, we had to work round TV advert schedules. We had to come out of Wet Wet Wet’s George Square set early because they came on late. Their manager was raging, he threatened to sue us. It never happened.
“The people behind the European City of Culture wanted to give something back, so they gave the biggest free concert in Glasgow’s history. It’d never happen now like it did then. I’m proud of what we did.”
Record entertainment writer PAUL ENGLISH looks back on the Big Day.

