UFC SUPERSTAR Michael Bisping has called on the Scottish fans to help drive him to victory on July 18 in Glasgow.
Unbeaten when fighting in the UK, the 36-year-old Manchester middleweight is fighting in the main event against Brazilian grappling specialist Thales Leites.
Bisping reckons his game reaches new heights whenever he fights on home soil and expects the Scottish fans to help spur him on.
He said: &quot;I'm feeling really confident. It's nice to be home as I've lived in America for a while now. But I'm unbeaten in Britain and so I'm hoping all the fans in Glasgow get behind me like I'm one of their own.&quot;
&quot;The pressure of fighting in front of home fans correlates into working extra hard and being able to push through adversity. You always have to push to exertion but fighting at home makes it feel better.&quot;
 

As a veteran of the sport with 23 fights in the UFC, Bisping was delighted when he got the call saying he was to be the star attraction in Glasgow.
After a massive win against CB Dolloway in his last fight, he's hoping a knockout in front of the Scottish fans will launch him towards the much elusive shot at the championship.
Bisping said: &quot;I kind of suspected I'd be the main event but I never expect it. I was pestering (UFC president) Dana White to get on the Glasgow card and then it happened so I was very happy when I found out.
&quot;I've been a contender in this division forever and I've never gotten over the hump. When I fought Luke Rockhold I felt like I was doing okay and probably won the first round. But then he headbutted me and blood was getting in my eye and I got caught with a head kick I didn't see coming.
READ: Exclusive Q&amp;A with pioneer Campbell McLaren.
&quot;Rockhold destroyed Lyota Machida and I think he will take the title from Chris Weidman.
&quot;When I beat Leites, I'll most likely have to beat another and then I'll get the title shot I dream of. The icing on the cake of my career would be to have it anywhere in the UK.&quot;
Known as one the most entertaining characters in MMA, Bisping is a highly sought after analyst in America due to how good he is with words.
That same talent is on show in the build-up to many of his fights where he is able to frustrate and upset his opponents before they even step in the cage. But he says although the Scottish fans can expect his usual fun and games, he never trash talks.
Bisping added: &quot;I hate when people say trash talk, I hate the expression, it sounds like professional wrestling. I'm always respectful but I'll tell Leites I'm the better fighter and that I'll knock him out in front of the Scottish fans.
&quot;There's a psychological aspect on fight week. You can beat them before the fight by imposing yourself and making a fighter doubt themselves. I believe you can win a fight without even throwing a punch when it works properly.&quot;
Bisping reckons the Glasgow fans are in for a treat with Leites having found a new &quot;killer instinct&quot; that gives hope he may choose to stand and strike.
'The Count' even offered his thoughts on exactly how the fight will end. He said:&quot;I used to be a very explosive starter but that isn't the case as much now. In three round fights, 99 per centof the time I win. But in five round fights, I wear opponents down and look for a stoppage.
&quot;I'm looking to frustrate Leites from the opening bell and he won't be able to hit me. Then I'll take him out in rounds four or five when he doesn't have the cardio to keep up with me any more.&quot;
READ: Joanne Calderwood’s vision.
Only back in the UK until Thursday, Bisping is adamant he is in the best shape of his career.
With everything looking good, he expects to feel the best he ever has inside the octagon.
The superstar added: &quot;My weight is the lowest it's ever been at this point. I'm usually maybe 220 lbs but I'm 205 right now. I'm not usually at that point until fight week itself.
&quot;I've had an intense training camp and can keep eating and working however I want and you'll see the best version of me in Scotland.&quot;
When asked how passionate he thinks the Scottish fans are, Bisping admits he's struggling to get tickets for his family and couldn't believe how quickly they were snapped up by eager fans wanting to see UFC for the first time in Scotland.
&quot;I have a long list of people hitting me up for tickets. But clearly there is a great thirst in Scotland to see the UFC and they flew off the shelves in only a few hours. I'll have to try to take advantage of my star power to see if I can't help out some friends and family with seats,&quot; he joked.

