AT THE Forgie household in Abington, there is a selection of hair removal products in the bathroom.
While Margaret is as smooth and hairless as most women in the summer months, she is not the main consumer of the razors and gels. That would be Hugh.
She said: “Cyclists are terrible. Hugh shaves just about everything. He is in that bathroom shaving his bits and pieces more than me.”
This includes his bald head, which causes some confusion.
Hugh, 59, has Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia, so people assume he’s having heavy chemotherapy. Not the case.
Margaret said: “It’s because of the cycling. Everyone thinks it’s because he’s a leukaemia patient but he’s got a great head of hair.”
 

The couple are taking to their bikes this summer to raise money for the Paul O’Gorman Leukaemia Research Centre, part of the Beatson Institute in Glasgow.
They are planning to cover the 2000 miles from Glasgow to Malaga in 10 days, splitting the distance between them. Despite his condition, for which there is no cure, Hugh will do 140 miles a day. Margaret will pedal for 60.
Route planning has been left to Hugh, which Margaret, 53, now regrets.
She said: “He’s a lot faster on the flat than me, so he says that I have to do a lot of the hills.”
Hugh has been a keen cyclist since a calf injury forced him to give up his first sport, running, when he was 38.
He competed on the racetrack across the world and came second to Seb Coe in 1975. He was also a long-distance shooter in international competitions.
 When he was diagnosed with leukaemia 13 years ago, he was determined not to let his  condition get in the way of his training regime. 
Margaret said: “One of the key side effects is fatigue.
“When he was diagnosed, he said, ‘That’s going to affect my whole life style. I’m not going to give in to that’. He’s a really determined character. And it’s not really affected him a lot.”
That is an understatement. Whenever he had a chemotherapy session at the Beatson in Glasgow, Hugh whizzed in from South Lanarkshire on his bike. Over two courses of the drug therapy, he only drove in a couple of times, when his blood count was too low for him to manage the 46-mile trip.
His wife said: “I’m absolutely certain cycling is what’s kept him going for so long.
“It’s 13 years last month since he was diagnosed. Not many people his age get this type of leukaemia, it’s mainly an older people’s disease.
“He thought he was going to die at first. Then he gave himself a brush down and had a read about it. He realised he could have a reasonable quality of life.”
Hugh now has a gene mutation which means chemotherapy no longer works.
A planned bone marrow transplant last year fell through when he was not well enough for the procedure. He is now taking a newly-licensed drug, Ibrutinib, which is controlling his symptoms well.
Because it’s so new – he began taking it when it was still at the testing stage – staff at the Beatson are keeping a close eye on his progress.
He is in for tests every Monday, and as long as it’s not hailing, he heads for Glasgow on his bike.
Margaret is a less enthusiastic cyclist than her husband.
She took it up when she turned 40, partly because it’s the only time she ever gets to see her husband. While she enjoys a turn to Moffat on a Sunday, it’s not her full-time job. She’s a bookkeeper.
Hugh retired from his job as an electrician with South Lanarkshire Council early.
Margaret has ramped up her training in preparation for the marathon ride ahead. This means cycling home from work in Lanark, adding in a few extra miles whenever possible. She’s currently up to around 25, as well as getting used to being in the saddle every day. At the weekend she might head off to Thornhill or, if it’s hill time, pedal to Scotland’s highest village, Wanlockhead, and back.
She said: “It’s only about 18 miles, but it’s a hard 18 miles.”
Training doesn’t stop for rain. When it’s wet outside Hugh and Margaret are on the Turbo Trainer, a gadget that turns a road bike into an indoor model.
This is not a leisurely workout in front of River City.
It’s head down, sweating, watching the clock, trying to take 30 seconds of yesterday’s time.
Margaret saidL “Hugh is watching every single bit of what I’m doing so that I don’t cheat. He is determined I’m going to be really fit for this. He thinks I need to lose a stone.”
 Local businesses and friends have rallied round to help the Forgies. Donna Kelly, a  haematology nurse from the Beatson, will drive their support vehicle from Scotland to Spain. Margaret added: “She had lymphoma herself, that’s one of the reasons want to do it.” 
The car is being supplied by Borders Motors in Dumfries.Bike shop Dales is lending the Forgies state of the art Garmin sat-navs.
Debbie Houston, managing director of Dales Cycles, said: “Hugh’s passion is truly humbling and the work they are doing for such an important charity is outstanding.”
The couple have been shaking buckets since November, and have currently raised &pound;22,000.
They hope to push this up by the time they hit the road in July. “If we get to over &pound;30,000 I’ll be quite happy.”
●Visit https://www.justgiving.com/Margaret-Forgie3/ to donate.
