FORT William is 418 miles – and a world away – from the corridors of Westminster. But Charles Kennedy was equally at home in both places.
 Growing up on a croft and attending his local school in the Highlands, his wasn’t the  privileged upbringing enjoyed by so many politicians. 
But he could hold his own with the best of them.
As a boy, the cheeky wee redhead endeared himself to his local community.

His sense of humour and gift of the gab was plain from his school days. So, too, was his passionate belief in his convictions and his great talent as a skilled debator.
Those who knew him, whether in Lochaber or Westminster, remember a hard worker who was always willing to listen and who stood by what he believed in.
One of his political highlights was a spine-tingling speech he gave as leader of the Lib Dems, when he led the party in opposition to the Iraq War.

More evidence of his integrity came when he was the only MP in his party to vote against going into coalition with the Tories.
It was a brave, risky stance – but Kennedy could not condone getting into partnership with a party he saw as being against social justice.
It was an irony when the public took their revenge against the Lib Dems in last month’s general election and Kennedy was ousted as an MP in the party bloodbath.

With typical eloquence and good grace, he conceded defeat at his count with the words: “I am very fond of political history. If nothing else, we can all reflect on and perhaps tell our grandchildren that we were there on the night of the long skean dhus.”
It was a devastating night for Kennedy. He had always taken pride in representing his constituents and making their voice heard in Parliament.
Lochaber politician Thomas MacLennan said his dedication as an MP was never in doubt.
 He added: “Charles was a man who was a recognisable national figure, appearing at Prime  Minister’s Questions one minute and at a local meeting the next. 
“You always felt at ease with him and he was an approachable person.”
 Kennedy’s steel as a politician were rooted in his humble  background. 
He was the modern-day embodiment of independent-minded Highland Liberalism which was rooted in the 19th century land struggle.
At Lochaber High School, Kennedy’s skills as an orator stood out.
Yesterday, headheacher Jim Sutherland, 51, said the school still has – somewhere – the old gavel-shaped trophy Kennedy won at the Scottish Debating Championship.
Jim said: “We have lost a powerful force for Lochaber and a great ambassador for our school. Charles will be sorely missed by the school and wider community.
“Everyone was very proud of him here. He did so well and he put Lochaber on the national stage.
“He had a certain turn of phrase that you just don’t often see in people.
“I once introduced him as ‘Our school’s most famous former pupil’ during an event.
“When he stood up, he re-introduced himself as ‘perhaps the most infamous’.”
Kennedy sharpened his debating skills as a student of politics and philosophy at Glasgow University.
He was president of the Glasgow University Union and won the Observer Mace in the student world debating championship.
Kennedy abandoned his postgraduate studies in America and stood in the Highlands for David Owen’s Social Democrat Party in 1983.
At 23, he stormed the Ross, Cromarty and Skye seat of Hamish Gray, the Tory energy minister, and arrived in the Commons as a Westminster sensation.
He served the Highlands for three decades while gaining a national reputation as Lib Dem president and then party leader.
 Outside the chambers of Westminster, Kennedy built up his profile through a series of TV  appearances. 
He earned the unwanted nickname of “Chat show Charlie”. But the public warmed to his wit, charm and genuine sense of being an ordinary person.
He was Lib Dem leader from 1999 to 2006 and he will go down in history as the political leader who told Tony Blair his war on Iraq was unjust.
More than any other political leader, Kennedy connected with the uneasy mood of the public in 2003 and he translated it into skilful parliamentary opposition.
His courage in leading his party against the conflict helped the Lib Dems gain 62 seats in 2005, their biggest ever share of seats in the Commons. The increase from 46 was the highest number of MPs the Liberals had seen since the 1920s.
Kennedy’s decision to vote against the formation of the coalition in 2010 again emphasised his individual approach and his refusal to compromise his principles.
Those high ideals were bolstered by a degree of steel which saw Kennedy through the cut and thrust of the political world.
But his most heroic decision, according to friends, was his admission after his resignation as party leader that he was an alcoholic. In truth, the writing had been on the wall for some time.
 Having led the party to their greatest election success, his colleagues rewarded him with  a whispering campaign about his drinking. 
Despite the low plotting, Kennedy later appeared to bear no grudges. Instead, he focused on where two decades in the then booze-fuelled atmosphere of the Commons had left him.
At the time, he said he was “coming to terms with and seeking to cope with a drink problem – a serious problem, indeed”.
 Alluding to his demons, which he wrestled with right up to the point of losing his seat last  month, Kennedy said: “Courage is a peculiar kind of fear.” 
Kennedy’s battle with the booze inevitably played havoc with his private life. He married Sarah Gurling in 2002 and their son Donald was born in 2005.
But the marriage collapsed in 2010 and Kennedy’s health continued to suffer.
The politician had also recently been blighted by a string of family heartaches.
His brother Ian suffered a debilitating illness and his mother Mary died last year.
Kennedy’s father Ian – a famous musician in the Highlands – died in April, just as the election campaign was gearing up.
In earlier campaigns, Ian had accompanied his son on the hustings circuit from village hall to village hall, sometimes cutting short the oratory to play another tune.
Yesterday, the Kennedy family spoke of their “great sadness and sense of shock”.
 They added: “We are obviously devastated at the loss. Charles was a fine man, a talented  politician and a loving father to his young son.” 
Former Lib Dem MP Lembit Opik said there had been concerns about Kennedy’s health after he lost his seat last month.
He added: “There was no support for him in his last days.”
