 Pau have signed Scotland prop Euan Murray on a two-year contract following their promotion to the French Top 14. 
 The 34-year-old had spent a season back with Glasgow Warriors but has left the Pro12 champions and retired from international rugby with Scotland. 
 Pau coach Simon Mannix said: &quot;He knows the highest level of the game and will be a bonus for our pack.&quot; 
 Murray earned 66 caps despite his refusal to play on Sundays because of his Christian beliefs. 
 He spoke in May of his hopes of staying at Scotstoun, but he was not involved in Warriors' Pro12 semi-final and final squads and now exits Gregor Townsend's squad. 
 Murray, British &amp; Irish Lion who is Scotland's most-capped prop, played for Glasgow for four years from 2003 and made 86 appearances. 
 He told Warriors' website: &quot;Returning to the club and the city after almost seven years away, it's incredible to see how much the Warriors have developed both on and off the field. 
 &quot;There's a special culture that exists at Scotstoun and I'm honoured to have been a part of the title-winning squad this season.&quot; 
 &quot;I would like to thank everyone at Glasgow Warriors who have helped with my development and career.&quot; 
 The Scot, who previously played for Northampton, Newcastle, Agen and Worcester, joins two All Blacks - fly-half Colin Slade and centre Conrad Smith - in joining the promoted club. 
 The New Zealand duo will arrive at the club in the Pyrenees-Atlantiques region after the Rugby World Cup. 
 Pau have also guaranteed the services of France lock Julien Pierre, Fiji winger Mosese Ratuvou and New Zealander prop Chris King. 
 Warriors head coach Gregor Townsend added: &quot;Euan has made a big impact at the club club over his two spells here and his vast experience has been a great addition to the squad this season. 
 &quot;He has always played with commitment and continues to be one of the best props in the game in the contact area. 
 &quot;As a Glasgow man, he always pulls on the jersey with pride and that passion really shines through when he is representing the city and the fans. 
 &quot;We wish him and his family all the best in France.&quot; 
