Labour MSP Ken Macintosh has officially launched his bid for the party's leadership in Scotland. 
He said that Labour needed to stop defining itself by its opposition to the SNP and the Tories.
The politician also called for a major overhaul of the party's rules on leadership elections. 
Meanwhile, Mr Macintosh's opponent Kezia Dugdale has won the backing of former Scottish Labour leader Johann Lamont.
Ms Dugdale, the party's current deputy leader, was officially endorsed by Ms Lamont who had held the post before outgoing leader Jim Murphy.
He is set to resign this month following Labour's poor performance at the general election.
Mr Macintosh, who has represented the Eastwood constituency since 1999 and is Labour's social justice spokesman at Holyrood, launched his candidacy after meeting students at Glasgow University.
He said the Labour Party in Scotland had &quot;lost the trust and the faith of the people of Scotland&quot; and needed &quot;to take a fundamentally different approach&quot; to politics.
Mr Macintosh added: &quot;I do not want to ask people to vote Labour to block the Tories in London or to stop the SNP in Edinburgh; I want them to want to vote Labour because we have the ideas, the vision and the values to deliver a better future for Scotland.
&quot;Devolution offers a new way of doing politics in Scotland, less tribal and confrontational, more collaborative, more about sharing power with civic Scotland, with the voluntary sector, with businesses, with the people of Scotland.
&quot;That is why I am standing to be leader of Scotland's Labour Party. It is time we focus on Scotland's future, not Labour's past.&quot; 
Mr Macintosh, who has stood for the leadership in 2011, said he would be a &quot;reformist&quot; leader, and called on party members and affiliated organisations to support his proposals to change the rules of electing a new leader.
He has set out his proposals, which include;
Mr Macintosh has also said he wanted to move to a &quot;one member one vote&quot; system for electing party leaders, rather than the three-college system currently used by the Labour. 
He also favours introducing open primaries, in which candidates could be questioned by registered supporters of the party rather than just paid-up members.
Tensions have already mounted in the leadership contest, with Mr Macintosh having accused the &quot;party machine&quot; of bullying his supporters in an attempt to avoid a contest.
He said his comments had not been aimed at party staff, but he has not named those he thought were responsible.
Ms Dugdale had already secured the support of more than half of Scottish Labour's MSPs, as well as MP Ian Murray, since announcing her intention to stand.
Now she also has the backing of Ms Lamont, who said she was a &quot;bright, talented, compassionate and brave&quot; candidate.
Ms Lamont added: &quot;Critically she is part of the post referendum generation, shaped by that debate but not scarred by the arguments of the pre Scottish Parliament generation - hers is the generation charged with healing divisions and responding to a changed Scotland.
&quot;Her instinct is to co-operate and that is good. Her politics are grounded in making a difference and tackling inequality and that means she can be a powerful voice for action over rhetoric.&quot;
