A LEADING children's charity has celebrated its 60th anniversary by launching a new employability service.Action for Children Scotland has also vowed to continue helping vulnerable young people build better, happier futures.The organisation was known as National Children's Homes in 1955 when it opened its first Scottish service at Cathkin House in Rutherglen which gave children who had nowhere else to go a safe place to live.Action for Children Scotland now runs 84 services across the country and its new Glasgow-based employability service will help 750 young people from across Scotland find work in the construction industry this year.Minister for Youth and Women's Employment, Annabelle Ewing, attended the anniversary celebration. She said: &quot;For 60 years Action for Children has been helping children and young people in many practical ways. Its Youthbuild project makes a huge difference to those young people not in education or employment who want to work in the construction industry and is a fantastic example of the outstanding work done by the charity.&quot;I am delighted to be here today to help them celebrate their 60th anniversary and open their new premises in Govan.&quot;Sir Tony Hawkhead, chief executive of Action for Children, said: &quot;We have come a long way since that first children's home - evolving and innovating to ensure we can tackle issues as they emerge and meet the changing needs of the most vulnerable groups in our society. Sixty years on, our services are very different but our aim remains unchanged: we want to help children and young people in Scotland to build better, happier futures.&quot;The new service will house the charity's Youthbuild and Challenge projects, which give young people who are not in education or employment (NEET) training, work experience and support to find work in the construction industry. An impressive 75 per cent of Youthbuild participants go into paid employment.Ryan Jack (19), from Glasgow, took part in the charity's Youthbuild project last year. He said: &quot;I was unemployed for about two months. I was applying for jobs, but a lot of the time I wouldn't even hear back. Then I was told about Youthbuild. The training was really good, and we were helped to find work.&quot;I'm now working as a labourer with FES Limited. It's really brilliant, this has been the best year of my life. Receiving my first wage felt great; my mum and dad were proud. I'm trying to learn as much as I can and hope to go onto an apprenticeship.&quot;The new service boasts new learning facilities, a well-equipped workshop, and space for young people to complete scaffolding training. It will allow the charity to help more young people into employment than ever before.Sir Tony continued: &quot;It is fitting that we have marked our special anniversary by launching a service that will very literally give young people the tools they need to succeed. I am proud to be here today and look forward to what the future holds for our charity, and children across Scotland.&quot;