THIS week marks the launch of a very special, extended Refugee Festival Scotland which will run from June 3rd to the 21st.
This year’s festival is special because it celebrates the Scottish Refugee Council’s 30th birthday, but also because it is more important than ever that we give recognition to the plight of refugees across the world.
Just in the months gone by a number of refugee crises have escalated. We have seen a huge loss of life in the Mediterranean as migrants attempt to cross to Europe on overcrowded boats and every day Rohingyan refugees are being driven from their homes in Myanmar and forced to make the dangerous journey to countries like Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand.
There is also the ongoing Syrian refugee crisis – it is estimated that more than 11 million people have been displaced due to the civil war which began over four years ago.
The situation for refugees globally is more unstable than ever. Yet, despite the media coverage of these crises and the increased awareness of how people are being persecuted across the world - here in the UK the political rhetoric surrounding refugees and asylum seekers increasingly hostile and negative.
The European Commission is currently drawing up relocation and resettlement proposals which, using a &quot;distribution key&quot;, suggest the number of refugees from the Mediterranean crisis each country should accept. Already, Home Secretary Theresa May has insisted that the UK will not opt in to these proposals – which would see the UK responsible for caring for just 2,000 refugees. That is not a large number at all – 2,000 people would not even fill five per cent of Hampden Stadium.
The UK must review its approach. We cannot allow the people on these boats to be dehumanised by anti-migrant rhetoric. Yes, we must crack down on the criminals who are putting vulnerable, desperate people on substandard boats to cross the Mediterranean in subhuman conditions, but resettlement must also be part of the solution.
Many of the refugees living in this country have fled the most horrible suffering including sexual violence, female genital mutilation and torture. Rather than offering these people safety, stability and security the UK Government is subjecting many of them to further inhumane treatment.
Families who have been refused asylum are forced into vans during dawn raids and detained like prisoners – even the children. Being refused asylum is not a crime, so why treat them like criminals? Asylum seekers whose cases are ongoing are accused of being “scroungers” while they are forced to live off of just &pound;35 a week and banned from working.
The Scottish Government has pushed, and will continue to push for reform of the asylum system. The UK must put a stop to child detention and dawn raids, and begin treating refugees with compassion, not hostility.
In stark contrast to the inhumane practices of the Home Office, there are many wonderful organisations out there, dedicated to providing support and services to the refugee community. Here in Glasgow groups like Govan and Craigton Integration Network and Karibou Scotland offer a safe space, somewhere refugees can seek support for some of the difficulties the asylum system throws up, and meet people who have made it through similar experiences.
For their 30th birthday the Scottish Refugee Council is making the theme of Refugee Scotland Week &quot;celebrate&quot; – shining a positive light on the strength and resilience of the refugee community in Scotland. Over the next three weeks there are many fantastic cultural events taking place in the Refugee Festival Scotland – from plays to film screenings to ceilidhs – so get yourself along to some of them.
Check out the programme at www.refugeefestivalscotland.co.uk .
***
FINALLY, my thoughts are with Charles Kennedy’s family and friends at this awful time. Very few politicians are able to connect with the public in the way that Charles did. He was humourous, principled and honest politician, a rare breed who will be sorely missed.
