A MUM was brutally stabbed moments after dropping off her children at school yesterday.
Charlene Malone, 30, was attacked at 9am outside her home on Wester Drylaw Drive in Edinburgh.
It is believed the attack may have stemmed from a row on social media.
The mother of three had just dropped her youngest daughter off at a local primary school and was about to go for a cup of tea with a friend.
Her two older children, aged 11 and 12, had earlier walked to school unaccompanied.
Last night, a friend told how Charlene was assaulted by a man and a woman who pulled up in a car and jumped out on her on the street outside her flat.
The friend, who did not want to be named, said she was dragged along the pavement before being savagely attacked with a blade.
She claimed that witnesses had also seen a small child strapped into the back seat of the car driven by her attackers.
The friend said: “Her arm got slashed on the underneath because she put up her arm to defend herself and she got stabbed in the back.
“She was just coming back from the school after dropping off the wee one, she was only going to go back to her friends for a cup of tea.
“Her other two children are big enough to walk there but the little one is only five so Charlene walks her along.
“She was just outside her flat when this car pulls up and a woman got out and attacked her. I didn’t see it but two witnesses saw it.
 

“Then Charlene was getting the better of her so a man got out and dragged Charlene along the street by her hair.
“That’s when the woman got her knife out, it was a Stanley knife I think.
“She stabbed her in the back and then they drove off.
“They had a baby in the back and it was screaming while all this was carrying on.”
The friend said she had been told that the car used by the attackers was found a few miles away in Colinton.
She added: “I don’t know who did it or why they did it. It’s Benefits Street around here.
“Charlene’s OK but she’s to stay in hospital so they can look at her back.”
One neighbour, who also asked not to be named, said: “It’s absolutely terrible that can happen at that hour in the morning in front of her own house.
“I’ve lived here for 25 years and never seen anything like that happen.”
But another said: “It’s just life. It could happen anywhere.”
Drylaw, in north-west Edinburgh, is one of the city’s poorest areas.
Charlene was still in hospital and could not be contacted for comment.
It is understood the attacker is known to her and that the stabbing happened following a Facebook argument.
A police spokesman said: “Police are investigating following a report of an assault in the Drylaw area of the city.
“The incident happened around 9am this morning. Inquiries are ongoing.”
Try our quick news quiz below:

 
