SCOTLAND's smallest whisky distillery is donating more than &pound;20,000 to help in the aftermath of the Nepal earthquakes.
The Edradour Distillery, at Pitlochry in Perthshire, will sell more than 1,000 bottles of its single malt to help the disaster hit country.
Distillery owner Andrew Symington decided to raise the cash after fearing some family friends may have been caught up in the devastation.
Andrew said: “We put it out on Monday afternoon. We are selling 1,033 bottles of the whisky.
“We will raise &pound;22,128.79. That's the exact figure.
“It's partly because we go on holiday to one of the Emirates every year and in the hotel there there's several guys from Nepal.
“One of them is the restaurant manager and he looks after us very well as do the lifeguards with some of the kids.

 
“Knowing they were all from Nepal we thought they might have had some impact from this earthquake.
“One guy especially has been working there for six years now and he sends money back and is building his house.
 
“I thought his house might have been wiped out but thankfully we were able to get hold of him to find out that he was 450km east of there so hadn't been effected.”
Despite finding out none of their friends had been affected the family-owned business pushed forward with plans to donate thousands of pounds to the fund.
“We had already put this in motion and thought lets run with it anyway because seeing the scenes of devastation and every that was connected with it looked pretty horrendous,” Andrew said.
 

“We thought it was something we could do as a nice gesture.
“Hopefully it will go a long way.”
The first bottle from the cask off the bottling line will even be auctioned off by Lumley in an effort to raise even more cash.
“We decided to get in touch with Joanna Lumley who has been campaigning for it a lot and donated through her disaster relief fund.
“We sent her the first bottle to auction off to raise more funs.
“We'll be sending a cheque to the fund this week with the proceeds and we'll just eventually sell the bottles. That way we can get the aid in just now when it's most needed.”
 

 

Try our quick news quiz below:

