NURSES and medics have joined forces to prescribe the medicine needed to heal the NHS.
The major intervention from two respected professional bodies comes amid growing concern about the strain on our health service.
Key waiting-time targets are being missed, A&amp;E departments are under sustained pressure and hospitals are having to cope with growing demand from patients.
The Royal College of Nursing yesterday warned the SNP are guilty of a “boom and bust” approach to staffing as figures showed the spiralling cost of private agency workers.
Today, the RCN have teamed up with the Academy of Medical Royal Colleges and Faculties in Scotland to call on the SNP Government to listen to wider concerns. They want:
●A “genuine public debate” on how to change the NHS.
●A fresh look at the target-driven culture.
●New ways of delivering care.
●Better working between health professions.
Academy chairman Ian Ritchie said: “We’re all committed to an NHS that is publicly funded and publicly delivered.
“Yet we’re seeing day-in, day-out, the immense pressure which the NHS is under, as patient demand and public expectations soar and funding is unable to keep up, even with increases in the NHS budget.
“The time for talking and political point scoring has passed. We need to take practical action together now.”
 

RCN Scotland director Theresa Fyffe said the NHS needs more than just promises of extra cash.
She added: “We cannot continue to deliver services the way we have done up to now. It is up to us as leaders to step forward and take a leading role in kick-starting the public debate that needs to take place about the future of our NHS.”
She pointed to targets as a central problem in the way the NHS is overseen by the Scottish Government.
Busy A&amp;E departments are supposed to see at least 95 per cent of patients within four hours.
The latest results were 92.8 per cent in April and 92.2 per cent in the week ending May 24.
It emerged on Monday that &shy;emergency departments in England hit the same target for the first time since September last year.
Fyffe said: “We know that targets can often skew clinical priorities and waste resources.
“There needs to be a new evidence-based model for measuring success, focusing on better outcomes for patients and our health services.
“Without change we’re putting at risk the sustainability of our NHS.”
 

Dr Peter Bennie, chairman of the British Medical Association in &shy;Scotland, backed the other leaders.
He said: “The service is struggling to cope with rising demand and the complex health needs of the ageing population will further add to the pressure.
“At the same time, the rising workload is placing greater pressure on staff who are working hard to maintain services at their current levels.
“It is vital that change is informed by those who work in the service and those who can see where the real pressure points are.”
Health Secretary Shona Robison promised to “listen closely” to the message. She claimed credit for historically low waiting times, and reductions in hospital bugs such as MRSA and Clostridium difficile.
But she added: “We agree with the proposition that we need to change and evolve our health and social care services to meet rising demand, tackle health inequalities and meet the &shy;challenges of an ageing population.”
Labour’s Jenny Marra said: “It is clear our NHS is on the brink of being overwhelmed by demand if it is not already. Today, expert institutions are speaking out, which only highlights the depth of concern about the &shy;condition of the Scottish NHS.”
Tory Jackson Carlaw said taxpayers’ money should be used to hire more nurses, rather than &shy;subsidising prescriptions for the wealthy.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

