Kilmarnock UFC star Joanne Calderwood believes she can be back in the running for a title shot by the turn of the year.
And the former St Joseph’s Academy pupil is confident home advantage can help get her back on track as she gets set to fight in Scotland next month.
UFC comes to Glasgow on July 18, with tickets selling out just hours after going on sale last week.
It offers Calderwood a chance to prove a point after her last outing. Despite high hopes of a victory and talk of an impending title shot after her fight in Poland back in April, she suffered a first round loss to Ukrainian Maryna Moroz.
Following that defeat, Calderwood took to social media to apologise to fans and admit personal problems had played a part in the performance.
Those problems saw her take time away from her Glasgow-based Dinky Ninja team and set up camp in Sweden.
But she is now back at the Griphouse in Glasgow and told the Standard: “For my last fight, there were too many other things going on round about me that the thought of a title fight was probably the only good pressure thing on me – it was a good distraction.
“But I wasn’t thinking about a title fight or what a win could mean for UFC Glasgow, I was just concentrating on getting past that fight.
“Being back home is helping a lot.
“I’m really close to my team and it killed me having to go to Sweden, but I knew I had to do it because I picked the fight over dealing with stuff.
“Now I’m back around everyone and being more open with people, and talking a lot more, and it’s been great.”
 

Calderwood is among three Scottish fighters set to take centre stage at the SSE Hydro next month.
This, and the fact she is back working with head coach James Doolan, means the Kilmarnock star is confident ahead of the bout.
And squaring off against loud-mouth Australian Bec Rawlings is something the 28-year-old can’t wait for.
“I’m very happy with the match up, I think it will be a good fight,” said Calderwood.
“Although the Scottish fans are already behind me, I think they’ll be even more so on the night because no one likes her.
She promoted herself as a bully in The Ultimate Fighter show I was on, and not a lot of people like her.”
The pair were due to fight when both were signed to the Invicta promotion.
However, on the week of the fight fellow contestant Claudia Gadelha – who was set to contest the main event – pulled out.
Calderwood was asked to step in, but felt it was too early in her Invicta career. Rawlings was then asked and took the fight.
“We didn’t take the fight with Carla because we had been preparing for Becs who is a striker,” she added.
“Everything was pretty much done, our game plan was ready and it was just about making weight that week, so we didn’t take it.
“At the time, this fight would have been a bit of unfinished business.
“But she lost the fight and then lost a couple more, and we went our separate ways in our career. She is definitely getting better.”
Rawlings is notorious for mouthing off in the run up to fights and is sure to try and get under Calderwood’s skin – and shutting the Aussie up is definitely something the Kilmarnock fighter is looking forward to.
But she isn’t under-estimating her opponent.
She added: “It’ll be a good fight and I think it’ll be a hard fight, because we both like to stand up.
“I don’t really want to get involved in the pantomime that she likes.
“I don’t let emotions take over, but I know when I see her at the stare downs I’m probably going to have to bite my tongue.
“I’m a professional, I concentrate on my training. That’s where the work goes into.”
