A LEGAL highs shop will be closed down by police today – in the first case of its kind in Scotland.
The shutdown comes after a sheriff yesterday granted a closure order to Police Scotland and Aberdeen City Council.
It is the first such court order against a shop selling New Psychoactive Substances (NPS) – more commonly known as legal highs.
The order against Harminasion, in Aberdeen’s George Street, was granted on the grounds of anti-social behaviour arising from the sale of legal highs.
 

Police said they had acted on “concerns about persistent anti-social behaviour from customers of the shop” following complaints from neighbouring residents, businesses, and local councillors.
By using existing legislation, police in Scotland have been able to act ahead of the ban on legal highs trailed in last week’s Queen’s Speech to the new Parliament.
The Psychoactive Substances Bill and will apply to “any substances intended for human consumption that is capable of producing a psychoactive effect”.
Harminasion also operate a shop in the fishing port of Peterhead called Just the Thing.
On their Facebook page, they advertise legal highs with names like Blue Genie and Columbiana.
 

 
The George Street shop will be closed for an initial three months under the Antisocial Behaviour (Scotland) Act 2004.
 Aberdeen City North area commander Chief Inspector Nick Topping said: “This is the first time anti-social behaviour legislation has been used to tackle the  problems around shops that sell so-called legal highs. 
“Working with Aberdeen City Council, we have listened to the concerns raised by the local community about the anti-social behaviour surrounding the shop on George Street.
“We are committed to tackling issues associated with NPS. There is no safe way to take NPS.”
Aberdeen councillor Ross Thomson said: “There have been a number of complaints from local residents and businesses about persistent and serious antisocial behaviour arising from customer.
“I welcome today’s action.”
 

No one was available at Harminasion last night and a man who answered the phone at the Peterhead shop said he knew nothing about the situation.
It comes a week after the Record reported Jamie Donnelly, 25, had died and a 16-year-old girl collapsed in the street after taking legal high drugs in Falkirk.

