A PARALYMPIC record-breaker is to lose her precious car – because benefits officials say she’s not disabled enough.
Teenager Kayleigh Haggo’s mobility car is to be taken off her because of a change in disability rules.
And she says it will mean an end to the training sessions necessary to continue her sporting success – because it would be impossible for her to get there by public transport.
The shocking bid to strip Kayleigh, 16, of her car has come about after the recent switch from Disability Living Allowance to Personal Independence Payments.
Under DLA, applicants who could not walk 50 metres unaided qualified for a Motability car. But under PIP, anyone who can walk just 20 metres loses that entitlement.
Kayleigh, who has cerebral palsy, can manage the lesser distance and so falls foul of the rule change.
In a cruel irony, she believes it is only her tough training which has enabled her to walk as far as 20 metres.
  Record View: Paralympic hero Kayleigh Haggo let down by a broken benefits system 
 

 
But she will be unable to continue with the regime once the car – which is driven for her by mum Sandra, 48 – is taken off her.
Now Kayleigh is fighting back with an online petition to Prime Minister David Cameron begging for the heartless move to be overturned.
Kayleigh, who lives in Maybole, Ayrshire, said yesterday: “Do they want me to stay at home for the rest of my life?”
Kayleigh was a Commonwealth Games torch-bearer and previously starred in the European Paralympic Youth Games, winning three golds.
The sports all-rounder holds a total of 13 world records and four national age group records in swimming, racerunning, and club throw sports.
But she says the move will ruin her chances of podium glory at the Paralympic Games in Tokyo 2020 as well as her dreams of going on to higher education.
She said: “When I leave school I’m hoping to train full-time and also go to college or university. But I won’t be able to get there. I really want to compete in the Paralympics, but not having a car will mean that can’t happen.
 
“To get the bus would mean I’d have to go down the stairs myself, and I can’t do that.”
 

Scottish Disability Sport boss Gavin Mcleod blasted: “Without her Motability allowance, she will not be able to benefit from her participation in sport and continue on her performance pathway.
“This is also a significant concern for SDS as Kayleigh has undoubted potential to represent Scotland and GB on the international, Commonwealth and Paralympic stage.”
Kayleigh’s current car is a load-lugging Peugeot SUV, perfect for carrying Kayleigh’s wheelchair and sports equipment.
But she was told by the Department for Work and Pensions on May 26 that the car must be returned by June 16.
Kayleigh’s NHS worker mum, Sandra said last night: “ I’m really angry. Her whole future independence and life depends on this decision.
“She’s an exceptional young lady who’s worked hard to get where she is.
“There are now two questions which relate to mobility,
“One is whether the person can plan and follow a journey unaided.
 

 
“The other is whether they can walk more than 20 metres unaided, which she can. So if Kayleigh wasn’t pushing herself to walk short distances, she would have qualified for her car.
“We’ve always pushed her to be as independent as she can be.”
A DWP spokesman said: “This decision was made after considering all the evidence provided by Ms Haggo, as part of her application.
“Ms Haggo asked for a reconsideration of the decision by a different member of staff.
“This was carried out and the original decision was upheld.”

