A PENSIONER is suing the NHS for “unnecessarily” amputating his legs.
Walter Watson, 69, is raising the action against NHS Grampian claiming that despite attending several outpatient appointments, nothing was done about ulcers on his legs until he became seriously ill with an infection.
He woke in hospital after an operation in 2013 to discover both legs had been amputated.
NHS Grampian said amputations are only carried out when they were the only option.
Thompsons Solicitors have obtained reports from independent experts, which they claim said other treatments should have been tried first, reports the BBC.
Mr Watson, from Aberdeen, said: “It’s bad enough losing your legs but to think you didn’t need to, that really is a bitter pill.
“You can imagine the shock when I awoke to find half of me was missing.”
‘Out the blue’
He said he had no recollection of signing a consent form for the operation.
He said: “It happened out of the blue. I had no idea I was going to lose my legs.
“I was looking forward to my retirement. It’s gone. I can’t have any retirement. I’m very restricted where I can go.”
Solicitor Nicola Kelly said: “It is the experts’ view that, had he received the appropriate prompt treatment, he wouldn’t have needed the double amputation.
“It’s obviously a horrendous thing for anyone to go through, but even more so for Mr Watson because he had been going back and forwards to the hospital and was repeatedly discharged with no appropriate treatment or follow up.”
A spokeswoman for NHS Grampian said: “We can confirm legal action is under way; as such it would be inappropriate to comment on this specific case.
“Speaking generally, we recognise amputation is a traumatic and life-changing procedure.
“We do our utmost to prevent our vascular patients reaching the point where amputation is necessary. NHS Grampian is unusual in that we offer smoking cessation support within the outpatient service.
“If amputation is the only option, we are absolutely committed to returning the patient to an independent life.
“In-patients spend a minimum of three months on the ward following surgery; during this time they receive intense physiotherapy and occupational therapy support.”
“We are confident that we offer a high standard of care to our patients.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

