A WOMAN pictured unconscious, trousers down and holding a needle in a disturbing image that exposed Scotland's heroin shame today admitted her part in the horror episode.
 Leanne Ellington was found with Steven Van Lierop in a close in Dundee's Albert Street - the pair slumped in a corner of the entrance way in a drug induced stupor. 
 Van Lierop, 34, was jailed for two months last year over his part in the incident - which was captured on camera by a father who was trying to carry his ten-month-old child out of his flat when he came across the pair. 
 Today Ellington admitted a charge of breach of the peace at Dundee Sheriff Court . 
Neither of the pair lived in the block, which they were using as a makeshift drug den.
Fiscal depute Mohamad Sadiq said: &quot;At around 5.20pm witnesses returned home and on arrival they witnessed the accused lying on the ground near to the bottom of the stairs.
&quot;The accused was found to be in a state of undress and had her trousers down to her ankles exposing her underwear.
&quot;Witnesses thought she may have fallen down the stairs and approached her.
&quot;They noticed she was holding a hypodermic needle in her hand.
 

&quot;The matter was reported to police who arrived shortly after.
&quot;The accused was bleeding from the injection site in her groin and an ambulance was called.&quot;
Ellington, 31, of Hazelhead Way, Dundee, pleaded guilty to a charge of breach of the peace.
Anne Duffy, defending, said: &quot;She has written a letter expressing her extreme remorse and embarrassment.&quot;
 Sheriff Elizabeth Munro deferred sentence for social work background reports with a view to placing Ellington on a drug treatment programme . 
 

Ellington's co-accused Van Lierop - also known as Steven Batchelor - was jailed for 40 months for serious assault after attacking Alexander McLennan outside the Cutty Sark pub in Dundee in 2012.
Mr McLennan died at the hands of John Cassidy during the attack, in which Van Lierop, Cassidy and Ross Ramsay were all initially charged with murder.
However, Cassidy later admitted culpable homicide, while Van Lierop and Ramsay admitted assault charges.
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

