A BUNGLING thief who loaded a pile of scrap metal into his van and tried to make a quick getaway ended up being caught after his heavy loot left the vehicle stuck in mud.
 Paisley Sheriff Court heard how Allan Thomson went to an abandoned hospital to steal cast-iron radiators but his haul was so heavy that it left him unable to flee the scene. 
After spending the night there, pondering his plight, the hapless crook then called for a tow-truck to pull the hired Ford Transit out of its sticky situation.
 However, the police were alerted after the tow-truck and van were spotted at the scene...and 30-year-old Thomson was soon caught red-handed. 
It was on January 9 this year that Thomson, of Morar Drive, Linwood, hatched his plan to cash in on some scrap metal.
He targeted radiators at the former Merchiston Hospital site, in Bridge of Weir Road, Brookfield, which was being demolished to make way for a new housing development.
Thomson dismantled a security fence to gain access to the site, parked his van on a grassy area and set about loading up his haul.
However, he soon discovered the weight of the radiators had left the vehicle stuck in the mud.
Depute fiscal Margaret McCallum told the court Thomson called a local road rescue service and asked for help.
However, when the site manager arrived to start work just after 8am, he found the tow-truck inside the yard and saw Thomson’s van “immersed” in the mud.
Police were summoned and, when Thomson was quizzed, he told officers he had gone there “to have a sleep” – but they soon discovered the radiators in the rear of his van.
In court, he admitted stealing five radiators which had been set aside for collection at the old hospital buildings.
Defence agent Robin White said Thomson was surviving on benefits due to a back injury he sustained in a road accident.
The lawyer added: “He sells scrap metal occasionally to supplement his income.”
It was stated Thomson had already been forced to cough up &pound;120 for the return of the hired Transit van after it had been seized by police.
After studying background reports, Sheriff Colin Pettigrew made him the subject of a 12-month Community Payback Order, requiring him to carry out 240 hours of unpaid work.
He warned Thomson: “This is a direct alternative to custody and, if you do not comply, that will inevitably follow.”


