THE DISGRACED husband of DJ Suzie McGuire put legal knowledge gained during his own wife beating trial to good use as he defended himself in a court.
Accountant Derek Mitchell, 37, was forced to represent himself as he stood trial for allegedly brandishing a baseball bat to intimidate a next door neighbour who attacked him the previous day.
And after a polished performance at Hamilton Sheriff Court, his motion to have the case thrown out was accepted by Sheriff Douglas Brown.
Mitchell had been accused of standing at the window of his flat in East Kilbride while he glared at welder Charles Kane, 41, who had punched and pushed him the night before after a fall-out.
But the case collapsed after Mitchell picked apart the evidence given by Kane and his partner Alice McNeill, 48.
Kane had claimed in court to have seen Mitchell wield a baseball bat but later he was forced to concede it was a snooker cue he held in his hands.
MItchell drew the sheriff's attention to conflict in Kane's statement to police, where he said he &quot;didn't notice&quot; Mitchell holding a baseball bat and his later testimony, in which he said he saw the bat.
The case was reduced to farce by the time Mitchell established that what he had in his hands at the flat in Hutton Drive may have been a boxed snooker cue.
He asked the sheriff: &quot;At this point is there any case to answer?&quot;
The sheriff consulted briefly with fiscal Wendy McAdam before agreeing to the motion and finding Mitchell not guilty.
After the case, Mitchell said that he was six months sober on Monday, following a major effort to turn his life around in the wake of his domestic abuse conviction against wife Suzie.
He said: &quot;I am six months sober and I think that today is another positive step for me.&quot;
When asked where he had gained his legal knowledge, Mitchell said: &quot;You know where from&quot;, in reference to his three week trial at Paisley
Sheriff Court at the end of 2013.
A court insider said: &quot;He put up a great performance. It is possible that he missed his vocation.&quot;
Mitchell was spared jail after being convicted of a string of domestic abuse charges from 2011, including breaking Clyde One DJ Suzie's finger.
Mitchell left his wife feeling like 'a broken woman', who tried to kill herself in March 2013 in a bid to escape her 'life of terror'.
Sheriff Susan Sinclair told him: &quot;You now accept you have a serious issue with the abuse of alcohol and have started taking steps to deal with it.&quot;
Mitchell was given a community payback order, with the condition that he will be supervised for two years, must carry out 300 hours of unpaid work in six months and attend a domestic abuse programme.
He was also ordered to be subjected to six months of alcohol counselling.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

