THE devastated partner of a man who died in police custody has vowed to continue her fight for justice after his funeral on Sunday.
Collette Bell told the Daily Record yesterday that Sheku Bayoh’s death has left her “counting down the days” until she can see him again in the afterlife.
But the 27-year-old, who is the mother of Sheku’s baby son Isaac, said she won’t rest until she knows the truth about what happened to him during an altercation with police officers last month.
Family lawyer Aamer Anwar yesterday renewed calls for Chief Constable Stephen House to intervene amid claims that the family have been misled over how Sheku –known as Shek to friends – died.
At least nine officers were involved in the scuffle during which pepper and pava spray, handcuffs, leg restraints and batons were used to subdue the 31-year-old.
 

Speaking ahead of Sheku’s funeral, Collette told how it was “love at first sight” when she met him three years ago.
She said: “We just clicked. Sheku always said it was as if Cupid hit him. We just fell for each other really fast.
“That’s just what we were like. We were always together. We just got on so well.”
 But the couple, who lived together in Kirkcaldy, just yards away from where  Sheku died, were left heartbroken last year when Collette suffered a miscarriage and lost twins. 
Wiping away tears, she told how he held her together during that difficult time and how they were over the moon when she fell pregnant again with Isaac, who is now five months old.
Collette said: “I miscarried with twins in March last year. It just wasn’t meant to be. But throughout the miscarriage, he was so supportive, so protective over me.
“He took time off work to look after me. When I fell pregnant in May with Isaac, we were over the moon.
 

“He loved my being pregnant. He would always be speaking to my bump and he felt him kicking really early. He would do anything for me and Isaac.”
Collette added: “He was such a good dad to his first son Tyler and that’s what made me fall in love with him even more.
“But now he’s going to miss Isaac’s first words, his first steps and he’s going to miss out on his first Father’s Day with him.
“I still don’t know how I’m going to tell Isaac what happened or how I’ll be able to explain what happened that day.
“You’re meant to be able to tell your children that if they’re in trouble, they can go to the police for help. I can’t do that with Isaac because look what happened with his dad.”
Collette had stayed the night at her mother’s house in Glenrothes but returned home on that fateful morning on May 3 to discover Sheku was missing.
His keys were still in the house and the door was left open, prompting a frantic Collette to call the police and report the British Gas employee missing.
It was then her world fell apart when four officers arrived and took her to the police station before delivering the news that they had “found a body”. In the hours that followed, Collette and Sheku’s family were told five different versions of what had happened to the father of two.
 

One stated that officers were hunting two men in connection with his death while another claimed his body had been found by a member of the public.
Eventually Collette and Sheku’s family learnt he had died in police custody.
She said: “It doesn’t even matter what Shek was or wasn’t doing. It doesn’t justify him dying.
“Several officers used their batons on him and he was pepper sprayed. That’s what hurts for me, knowing that such a kind, loving, gentleman has been hurt so badly and his death has been so painful.
“I think I deserve to know how he’s died. I don’t think I’m asking for a lot, I just want to know what happened for my son.
“I just feel like I’m counting down the days until I see Shek again.”
She added: “We’re laying Shek to rest on Sunday but we’re not going to rest until we know the truth. We won’t be silenced and we’re not going to be bullied.
“We’re going to fight this to the very end and we will find out the truth.”
A memory box of messages from Sheku’s friends and pictures of the doting dad is being put together for Isaac to help him remember his father.

The funeral will be held on Sunday, with a procession starting at the site of his death on Hayfield Road at noon.
Mourners will march with his coffin to Kirkcaldy police station, where they will stop for a five-minute silent protest. They will then move on to King’s Mosque for prayers and the funeral ceremony before Shek is buried in Dysart cemetery.
Human rights lawyer Anwar said: “It would be clear to anyone that Sheku Bayoh was madly in love with Collette and was a father who adored his boys.
“It’s always a tragedy losing someone in such horrific circumstances but it’s an absolute disgrace that loved ones are forced to set up a campaign to get answers.
“They have never been unreasonable, simply asking for the truth, yet they have been accused of being liars.
“Nobody should be above the rule of law. It’s time the chief constable took control of what is happening on his watch.”
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

