A HOPELESS junkie “shoots up” in a pop-up tent in a drug-infested encampment set up underneath Aberdeen’s main thoroughfare.
The shocking image has sparked outrage and prompted calls for action to clear the drug abusers from historic Union Terrace Gardens.
Police Scotland vowd to step up patrols in the area which has been plagued by heroin addicts for several years and driven the public from the city’s so-called “Green Lung”.
The photograph taken in broad daylight clearly shows a young man injecting a needle with syringe into his arm as he sits in a tent in clear view of anyone passing.
Politicians demanded immediate police intervention to clear the needle-strewn makeshift campsite which has sprung up on the site of a disused former railway turntable adjacent to the sunken Victorian park.
The city council have also come under fresh fire over their failure to embrace oil tycoon Sir Ian Wood’s multi-million pound offer to transform the gardens three years ago.
The photograph was snapped by an Aberdeen mum who said she had witnessed regular drug abuse in the camp – clearly visible from Union Street and passing trains – and was now frightened to take her children into the park.
Picnic tables and benches have been dragged into the illicit campers’ corner and graffiti is scrawled across the walls.
Discarded needles and burnt spoons can be seen scattered inside and around the tents.
The disgusted mum said: “I work just across the road and have witnessed them injecting and discarding the needles.
“They are surrounded by rubbish and waste, they are defecating alongside and just generally being disgusting.
“So much is being done to promote the gardens as a family friendly place, but I know I will never set foot in it until I know they have been removed and the entire area thoroughly cleaned and checked for needles.”
City councillor for the area Bill Cormie visited the “encampment” yesterday (Fri) and told the Record: “I can see exactly where this mother is coming from.
“There’s a corroded cast iron fence which has been pulled away to allow them access to the turntable area via the gardens.
“The worry is that anyone could get access if they know where the fence is broken. It would be so easy for a child to stumble across this.
“A child, a dog or a teenage could get in there and fall on one of these needles.
“I have been in touch with our director. I don’t care who owns the fence, we need get this fence fixed now.
“That area is owned by Network Rail so they and the council have to work together to find a solution.”
Council leader Jenny Laing said: “My understanding is that where the rough sleepers are is actually not on council property. I think it’s actually on the property of Network Rail.
“Obviously our officers have been working with others to come up with solutions, and the police are working with our officers and wardens to make sure any illegality is dealt with.”
Police Scotland said patrols in the area would now be stepped up after they were made aware of the camp.
A spokeswoman said : “Police Scotland is aware of the matter and has received a complaint from a member of the public.
“Officers visited the site and established that there was no criminality at that time.
“The matter has been referred to Aberdeen City Council and Network Rail and arrangements are being put in place with the environmental health department to address any issues.
“We would encourage the public to report any concerns regarding ongoing criminality.”
A Network Rail spokesman said: “The area in question is owned by the railway but located outwith its operational boundaries.
“The turntable site has recently been leased to a charity trust which intends to restore the site.
“We will liaise with the trust, council and police to address any inappropriate use of the land in the meantime.”
Earlier this week (June 2) the Record published a picture of a woman: lying unconscious, trousers down and holding a needle in a disturbing image that exposed Scotland’s heroin shame.
 

Leanne Ellington was found with Steven Van Lierop in a close in Dundee’s Albert Street - the pair slumped in a corner of the entrance way in a drug induced stupor.
Van Lierop, 34, was jailed for two months last year over his part in the incident - which was captured on camera by a father who was trying to carry his 10-month-old child out of his flat when he came across the pair.
Ellington admitted a charge of breach of the peace at Dundee Sheriff Court .
Neither of the pair lived in the block, which they were using as a makeshift drug den.
 Try your hand at our news quiz 

