POLICE have called off a nationwide hunt for ‘coy’ fish that were reported missing - then discovered lurking at the bottom of their pond.
The owners thought something fishy was going on after the 16 koi carp and goldfish - worth around &pound;500 - vanished overnight from their pond on Monday.
They reported the theft to local police, who issued a media alert for information to find the missing fish.
But the owners - a husband and wife - were left redfaced when their beloved orange goldfish, black and orange koi and large orange carp bobbed back up to the surface of their pond.
A Police Scotland spokesman, said: “The owners are a bit embarrassed about the whole thing. It was well intended but it seems the fish were freaked out after the net covering the pond came loose and blew into the pond.
“They swam to the bottom of the pond where the owners couldn’t see them. The pond is about 10 feet wide by six feet wide and quite deep so they had a lot of room for manoeuvre.”
Police released a statement saying the 16 ornamental fish that were apparently “stolen” from the pond in Kirkpatrick Fleming, Dumfries and Galloway, had been found safe and sound.
Officers said they were still looking for information about another 15 koi carp which were stolen from a pond in the Springfield area of Gretna.
At the time of the supposed theft, Constable Michelle Hamill of Police Scotland, said: “This is a very unusual type of theft for our area, and certainly to have two similar thefts, only a few miles apart and in such a short timescale does add to the theory that they may be linked.
“We are however keeping an open mind and would ask anyone who may have any information which may assist in these enquiries to get in touch with me through 101.”
Police say they are looking for the 15 koi carp after they went missing on Tuesday April 21. The carp were stolen from a pond at a house in Newton Square, Springfield. They were stolen between 5.30am and 6.30pm.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

