A SCOTS-based charity is behind a drive to fund a revolutionary clinical trial which could save the lives of children with deadly brain tumours.
And it could also bring hope to millions of sufferers of neurological conditions from Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s Disease to brain tumours.
Scots campaigner Bryn Williams had a special medication catheter fitted into the side of his head last year to help fight Parkinson’s Disease and has launched the fundraising campaign to help more people benefit from the revolutionary new treatment.
His charity Funding Neuro has launched the &pound;900,000 crowdfunding drive with neurosurgeon Professor Steven Gill to fund the special trial treating 18 children with deadly brain stem tumours.
Around 30 to 40 children are diagnosed every year in the UK with this type of cancer but usually die within nine months.
The trial could bring hope of a cure for the children but it also has huge implications for the treatment of a wide range of neurological conditions.
Doctors have previously struggled to get drugs needed through a protective membrane which surrounds the brain.
But Professor Gill and his team at the University of Bristol and North Bristol NHS Trust have come up with the unique micro-catheter system, which injects drugs directly where needed in the brain using robotic technology.
And the brain barrier then helps keep the drugs contained so patients don’t suffer the usual side effects.
Helping to push the appeal for cash is the Funding Neuro charity which was launched in 2012 by intellectual property lawyer and dad-of-two Bryn Williams.
The 43-year-old lawyer from Bearsden was diagnosed with Parkinson’s Disease in 2007 – and launched the charity to fund research into treatments for conditions which affect the brain and spinal column.
A number of children with brain stem tumours have been involved in the development of the Convection Enhanced Delivery (CED) micro-catheter system ahead of the trial – including two from Fife.
And five-year-old Italian toddler Gughi Grasselini is making progress after becoming the youngest child to receive chemotherapy via Prof Gill’s treatment after being diagnosed with a brain tumour in March 2014.
Sharon Kane, chief executive of Funding Neuro said: “The micro-catheter technology offers real hope to people suffering some of the worst diseases but we’ve turned to crowdfunding in an attempt to allow this technology to be developed far more quickly.
“Desperate parents across the world are seeking a cure for children suffering from brain stem tumours and the work being undertaken by Professor Gill and his team could literally be the difference between life and death.”
  To help the clinical trial go to the crowdfunding appeal at www.indiegogo.com/project/preview/a70ae316#/story  
  For more information on the charity go to www.fundingneuro.com or call 0141 530 4424  
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

