A PAEDOPHILE bus driver who raped boys for three decades was jailed for 13 years yesterday.
And as 64-year-old Gavin Bowie finally paid the price for his horrifying crimes, one victim – his own nephew – said he hoped the beast would die behind bars.
Alan Bowie, 54, branded his uncle, who showed no remorse and refuses to admit his guilt, a monster.
Alan and his younger brother, Gavin, were both repeatedly raped by their predatory uncle and turned to drink and drugs in later life to blot out the memory.
Alan said: “I am glad he is going to jail and hopefully he won’t leave prison.There are many more victims and at least knowing he is locked up means there will not be any more.
“I thought that maybe at the last minute he would confess but the man is a monster”
Gavin said Bowie destroyed his life but he was now relieved to see the justice he feared would elude him.
He said: “I don’t think he ever thought he would be caught. He thought he was invincible.
“The sentence can never make up for what he did but it goes some way towards retribution and justice, for myself and his other victims.”
 

Bowie preyed on boys while working as a bus driver in Glasgow, Cumbernauld and other parts of Scotland from 1972 to 2000. He lured his young victims with bribes of cannabis, alcohol and sweets and menaced them with threats.
 
He was finally brought to justice because of a chance meeting with one of his victims, now 36, in Halifax.
The victim, who coincidentally had also moved to the Yorkshire town after being abused in Scotland 20 years ago, got on Bowie’s bus and immediately recognised him.
The man said later: “At that moment, I turned into a scared little boy again. That man ruined my life. I could never, ever forget his face.”
Detectives had been unable to proceed with a complaint from another victim years earlier because they could not build a strong case.
But the new evidence meant they were able to trace more victims.
At the High Court in Livingston, yesterday judge Lady Wolffe told Bowie, who has prostate cancer: “It is clear that you are a callous and selfish man who totally fails to understand or acknowledge the continuing impact your actions had on the lives of your many victims.”
The victim who saw Bowie on the bus later became a heroin addict and served jail terms.
He said: “I was a really good kid but I lacked confidence. From the time I got on that bus as a child and met Bowie, my life changed forever.
“I couldn’t go to the police because I thought I wouldn’t be believed.”
 

After the sentence, Detective Chief Inspector Laura McLuckie praised the victims’ bravery.
 
She added: “Without them, I have no doubt Bowie would have continued to prey on boys and young men.
“Those men live with the consequences of Bowie’s selfish and predatory actions to this day.”
Prosecutor Jennifer Harrower echoed the praise for the victims.
 She said: “I would urge any victims of sexual crimes, even ones decades ago, to come forward and report them. They will be treated with the utmost professionalism and  sensitivity.” 
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

