SCHOOLBOY Rhys Lambert looks set for a golden future after wowing theatregoers with a sweet performance for James Bond director Sam Mendes.
Rhys has just wrapped up a starring run in one of the most coveted roles in British theatre, playing Charlie Bucket in a multi-million-pound production of Charlie and the Chocolate Factory in London’s West End.
The 10-year-old, of Gourock, Renfrewshire, landed the role after open auditions last year.
He spent 12 months flying between his home and theatreland to star in the musical, rewritten for the stage from Roald Dahl’s book by Edinburgh dramatist David Greig.
The all-singing, all-dancing role saw Rhys stay on stage throughout each of his performances.
And, as with much of Willy Wonka’s amazing confectionery, there was an unexpected twist – Rhys’s Charlie Bucket had a Scottish accent.
Now the talented lad is setting his sights on a showbiz career.
Mum Wendy, 43, said: “Rhys never went to drama class or had musical training. But he did have an infectious, non-stop desire to sing and dance round the house from a very early age.”
The youngster was seven when he landed a part in a local production of Beauty and The Beast.
That was followed by a stint as Oliver at Glasgow’s Pavilion theatre and a role in panto Jack and the Beanstalk at Greenock’s Beacon.
But his big break came after his mum found an advert for an open casting for a big London show.
She said: “So many people were advising us that Rhys had genuine talent. None of our family are involved in theatre so we had no experience of what to do to support Rhys.
“The following month through an internet search I found that open auditions were being held for Charlie and the Chocolate Factory in London in December.
“He’s such a big fan of the original Gene Wilder movie and the book, which really added to his excitement during the audition.
“In March last year they told us they wanted to offer Rhys the part and by the end of April he was performing his first show.”
Rhys, whose dad and grandad are both called Charlie, took to the role with the excitement you’d expect of a 10-year-old, who had not only found a golden ticket but also discovered it meant he got to play with millions of pounds worth of Warner Bros special effects kit each time he was on stage.
 

Wendy said: “Charlie was the only character in the show who did not leave the stage from the very first scene to the end. It involved him singing and dancing throughout.
“There was also a fantastic scene at the end where Willy Wonka and Charlie ‘fly’ in the glass elevator.
“Sam Mendes is executive director and it’s produced by Warner Bros, so the set is extraordinary. The director insisted Rhys was to allow his accent to come through. That really surprised us, and Rhys, but people have said that it was quite endearing.
“It felt surreal watching him perform. He played Charlie so well that sometimes it felt that he was someone else’s son. We are so proud. His final performance was really emotional.”
Although the part demanded Rhys took time out from school, he kept up with classes. His time was split between St Ninian’s Primary in Gourock and being tutored between rehearsals at the theatre with the three other boys who shared the role.
Wendy said: “The kids from outside London all stayed in what they called the Charlie House. It was a great experience for Rhys and he now has friends from different parts of the UK.”
His big year saw him rub shoulders with some of the biggest stars in Scottish showbiz. He met Emile Sande, Doctor Who star Peter Capaldi and the cast of Mrs Brown’s Boys on his frequent trips to London.
 

But he had to keep a low profile, sticking to the producer’s “no child publicity” rule during his run at the world famous Theatre Royal Drury Lane.
Wendy said: “He’s taking a well-earned break for a few months but has a London agent now and has been to some auditions so we will see what happens there.
“But he says himself his ambition is to ‘be in the movies.’”
Rhys said: “My favourite part was being able to live the life of Charlie Bucket and being on the set was just breathtaking. It was all so beautiful.
 “And performing with great, talented actors who I learned so much from was amazing. But the best part of the whole show was taking my bow after a long, but amazing, show. Hearing  the crowd cheer and seeing some audience members standing brought a huge smile to my face. 
“The great glass elevator was outstanding. I loved being able to look upon the audience from high above because it is just such a lovely, peaceful moment for not just the audience but also for the actors.
“I always laughed a little seeing all the other kids disappearing throughout the show as they were all my friends – how the set worked was all so confusing.
“The whole experience just boosted my confidence as when I started I was really nervous performing on a big stage in front of loads of people but as it went on I got more and more into it. I learned so much from my friends and all the other cast members.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

