ONE of the men accused of plotting to murder former Northern Ireland Loyalist leader Johnny &quot;Mad Dog&quot; Adair told detectives he is a Protestant.
John Gorman, 58, was detained and quizzed by police on October 30, 2013 in connection with alleged terrorism offences.
He was asked by police officers about religious beliefs and replied: &quot;One half of my family support Celtic and the other half support Rangers. We have never done nae bigotry in my house.
When he was asked again about his religion Mr Gorman said: &quot;Protestant. My daughter went to a Catholic school and my son to a Protestant school. I just went with what the best school was.
Later in the interview Gorman, who is known by the nickname Piddy said: &quot;I can't believe I'm in here for terrorism. I don't know where this information is coming from.&quot;
Gorman is on trial at the High Court in Glasgow with Antoin Duffy, 39, - also known as Antoin - Martin Hughes, 36, and Paul Sands, 31.
They all deny conspiring to murder Johnny &quot;Mad Dog&quot;Adair and Sam McCrory - once high profile figures in the loyalist organisation the UDA, and its military wing the Ulster Freedom Fighters
Duffy and Gorman also deny being part of a plan to murder the governor of Barlinnie jail Derek McGill in a car bomb attack.
Three other men - Craig Convery, 37, Gary Convery, 34, and Gordon Brown, 29, - deny organised crime charges.
In evidence, Detective Constable Tanya Hamilton told the jury she was there when Gorman was interviewed.
The court heard Gorman, who is a roughcaster and slater, was asked about his recent visits to Glasgow from his Irvine home.
He told the police officers he could only remember coming up to Glasgow once for work and to take his grand daughter to a Celtic match.
The jury has heard that undercover police photographed Gorman meeting with co-accused Duffy near to Old Castle Road, Glasgow on June 11, 2013. and spending about 10 minutes in his company.
In his police interview he made no mention of that.
Defence QC Edward Targowskil asked DC Hamilton: &quot;Mr Gorman says that what he told police was as far as he could remember is that correct,&quot; and she replied: &quot;Yes.&quot;
The trial before judge Lady Scott continues.
 Try your hand at our news quiz 

