THE leader of Scotland’s biggest teaching union yesterday spelled out a damning message to Education Secretary Angela Constance.
Tommy Castles – the outgoing president of the Educational Institute of Scotland – hit back at the SNP minister just weeks after she insisted poverty can’t be used an excuse for failure in education.
In a keynote speech to EIS delegates in Perth, Castles said: “On Curriculum for Excellence, I’ll quote Frank Sinatra, ‘Flying high in April, shot down in May’.
“We spend up to 10 years implementing CfE then after a half-hour speech made by a politician to a group of academics, it is open season on us and the CfE.”
He rounded on Constance after she told an audience in Glasgow: “It will never be acceptable for poverty to be an excuse for failure. It is our job – as parents, teachers and academic, and in local and central government – to overcome that barrier, not use it as an excuse.”
Castles said teachers are being blamed while having to cope with increased workload and red tape.
He slammed the Tories’ austerity cuts and likened the Scottish Qualifications Agency to Doctor Who’s enemies, the Daleks.
Castles added: “The Curriculum for Excellence is still one of our main drivers of workload. It should have brought about a de-cluttering of the primary curriculum but it has not.”
He said new exam structures are still a problem in schools and thousands of pupils signed petitions last month after complaining about an “impossible” maths Higher.
Castles said: “Was it the Daleks or the SQA who drove fear into people by shouting, ‘Exemplification, verification, extermination’.
“It was clear last year that the process was a nightmare for teachers, pupils and parents. We met with the SQA and changes were made but issues have not been resolved.”
Much of Castles’ speech centred on concerns about more brutal austerity from the newly-elected Tory Government at Westminster.
He warned: “Who would have thought that in the early part of the 21st century, teachers and lecturers would need to watch out for learners who are going to school and college hungry?”
In a statement, Constance replied: “I share Tommy Castles’ concern about the impact of austerity measures on efforts to close the attainment gap for children from our most deprived communities. We are all swimming against an unforgiving tide of funding cuts so it is important we work together on this common goal.
Labour MSP Mark Griffin said: “The EIS president is repeating what teachers across Scotland are saying. The SNP have squeezed funding on education in Scotland harder than the Tories have in England.”
Nicola Sturgeon defended teachers during First Minister’s Questions at Holyrood yesterday.
She said: “Teachers do a fantastic job and all of us should thank them for all the work they do.”
But Scottish Labour deputy Kezia Dugdale told her to get her head out of the sand and deal with exams “chaos”.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

