A RAMPAGING bull trampled two people and charged a young female jogger as police cars chased it through a town.
The animal made a bolt for freedom from Seafield Farm on the outskirts of Lerwick on Shetland on Tuesday evening.
 Two people were taken to hospital after being trampled by the bullock but they were not seriously hurt. 
Owner Maurice Anderson said the 100-stone bull was spooked by a “loud bang” and jumped a fence, crashed through several others and then headed towards the town centre.
Police spotted the runaway near the Clickimin Leisure Centre where it knocked 72-year-old Mary Thomason to the pavement as her evening stroll turned to terror.
The bullock was eventually cornered in a garden.
Attempts were made by police, a vet and the animal’s owners to get it into a trailer but the frightened beast bolted, knocking over a a man in his 40s who was taken to hospital.
A cow was then brought in to calm the bullock down and it was then put in the trailer and taken to the farm.
 

Mary yesterday said she felt lucky to be alive after her encounter with the animal.
She added: “I’m lucky not to have been killed.
“When I go for a walk I’m frightened about dogs sometimes. You never think that you would run into a bull.
“I was coming round the football pitch and all of a sudden I saw this great animal coming towards me.
“It was terribly frightening. I couldn’t believe it. I looked ahead and this bull was just in front of me.
“He just came right at me. I was knocked out for a second.
“The boys came to help me and the bull went along the path. The boys had to lift me and get me behind the fence.”
 

Mary suffered bruising to her ribs and chest in the incident.
She added: “I feel a bit shaken up and upset about the whole thing.”
Her son Angus said: “It was a frightening experience for her. She is really badly shaken up and bruised.
“Thankfully there was a paramedic there. People thought she was dead when they got to her.”
Minutes earlier student Holly King had been charged by the bull while out jogging near the town’s Tesco store.
She said: “I was just jogging along and I stopped and looked up and thought ‘is that a cow walking along the road’.
“As I was jogging by it was looking at me – it made eye contact with me.
“It stayed on the other side of the road, then it just went for me.
“I jumped over a wall and it jumped up, but it didn’t go over the wall. I must have just jumped at the last second.”
 

Yesterday, Maurice praised the police for trying to keep the public safe.
He said he and other locals with experience of livestock had been the ones involved in trying to capture the bull in the town’s Greenfield Place.
He said: “The area had a big garden and a large wall.
“It seemed to be much more content in there. And then it calmed down a bit and an old cow came in to accompany it and that helped it.
“We took it back to the farm and it’s in the byre now with some other cattle. We’ll keep it inside until its settled and ready to go off again.”
Maurice said that the young bull wasn’t used to humans and probably started to panic as it wandered through the town.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

