A BROKEN tooth has led to one of the most exciting pop collaborations of all time.
US pop legends Sparks and Scots rockers Franz Ferdinand first plotted getting together 11 years ago.
But it wasn’t until 2013 when Franz frontman Alex Kapranos made a trip to the dentists that the project – called FFS – came back to life.
Alex said: “We first met in 2004.
“We met up for a coffee in Los Angeles when Sparks were over there doing a gig.
“They’d heard us and had read about us in an NME article in which I mentioned that Sparks had been an influence.
“We hung out and had a bit of a laugh and decided we should do a song together.
“At the time they sent over the demo for the track P*** Off.
“We really liked it but it was just before our first album came out and things were really nuts.
“We didn’t have a chance to go home and see our pals and family let alone record.
“So it never happened and we sort of forgot about it.
 

“Then a couple of years ago, when we were in San Francisco, I’d broken a tooth and was looking for dentist downtown.
“I was lost and heard this voice behind me say, ‘Alex, is that you?’
“It was Ron. He and Russell were standing there.
“They were playing a gig that night and after it they asked about the collaboration and we said we should make it happen this time.”
 
Russell Mael, who first found fame as one half of Sparks with brother Ron in the 1970s, added: “We first met them in Los Angeles at the time of Take Me Out.
“We had read that Franz were fans of Sparks and thought we would get together with them if they were up for it.
“The timing was really rough because they were touring at the time so we took the initiative.
“We wrote P*** Off. Nine years later we bumped into Alex in the street in San Francisco. Almost 10 years after the initial seed was planted we were ready.
“Next we came up with another piece of material to get things restarted again.”
That song was Collaborations Don’t Work.
 

Alex said: “Ron sent over the original and me and Nick were having a laugh about it. It’s a funny idea to start a collaboration by sending over a song called Collaborations Don’t Work.
“I wrote the section, ‘I ain’t no collaborator, I’m the partisan.’
“He laid down the gauntlet and I took it and slapped him in the face with it. I thought it was quite a provocative thing to write back. As we were sending it back we thought he would either get really offended and never speak to us again or we’d both share the same sense of humour and it would be a good laugh making this record.”
Fortunately it was the latter.
Russell added: “At that point we were thinking we are really seeing eye to eye on these things.
 
“Then we were off and 6000 miles away sending songs back and forth and here we are.”
The bands finally made it into RAK Studios in London.
Russell said: “That was at the end of the whole process.
“It took about a year and a half to write the material for the album. We wanted to make sure it wasn’t this hypothetical thing of it being a great idea, then everybody being let down when they heard the music.”
As well as Russell and Alex, Franz Ferdinand guitarist Nick McCarthy, bassist Bob Hardy and drummer Paul Thomson are joined by Russell’s brother Ron on keyboards.
 

The line-up has created an album that’s a thrilling perfect middle ground between both Franz Ferdinand and Sparks.
Russell said: “That was the intent. For it to sound like one band or the other band wouldn’t be the point. The whole idea was for it to be this new entity and be integrated in all sorts of ways.
“One key thing with the vocals was to make sure they meshed well together.
“Both Alex and I have unique voices and to find a way for them to blend together as one seamless vocal was something we went out of our way to make happen.
“We’re really happy with the result.”
While plenty of Scots will get the double-meaning of the name FFS, both Alex and Russell admit it has been lost in translation.
 
Alex said: “We hadn’t been thinking about a name and one day Paul said, ‘We’re called FFS, aren’t we?’
“And I was, ‘Of course we are’.
“Journalists in Europe have been asking why we picked a boring name and we have to tell them it means something else as well. I like it. It’s funny and it’s puerile.”
Scots will be the first to see FFS live when they kick off their European tour at Glasgow’s School Of Art on June 16.

Alex said: “It sounds like FFS covering these songs.
“When we play a Sparks song there’s Franz Ferdinand in there and when we play Franz Ferdinand there’s a lot of Sparks in there.
“Achoo has got particular relevance for us because the first day we got together as a band, we were sitting in Nick’s house and talking about songs to play.
“We hadn’t written anything yet and one of the songs we decided to try was Achoo by Sparks.
“It’s kind of cool to now be playing it with Sparks all these years later.”
He added: “The Art School being the very first gig is really sweet for us because the Art School has a big history.
“We played some of our first gigs there. I’m also totally chuffed that our first gig as a band in front of a proper audience is going to be in Glasgow.”

 Try our quick entertainment quiz below: 

