A DISGRACED former police officer was yesterday cleared of stalking a teenage girl.
George Stewart was accused of bombarding Jordan Evans with texts and turning up at her work after their relationship ended.
Stewart, 38, told the court he had no intention of causing the maths student fear or alarm.
But last night, furious Jordan hit out at the verdict, claiming the prosecution case wasn’t thorough enough. Fighting back tears, she said: “I can’t believe he was found not guilty after what I have been through.
“The prosecution seemed to concentrate on texts when there were also emails and Facebook messages.
 

“If they’d taken those into account, the outcome would have been very different. It was tough giving evidence with him in the court but I went through with it to send him a clear message that I wasn’t scared.”
Stewart was charged with sending Jordan a torrent of texts between last year after she’d told him to stop, going to her work and getting a colleague to hand her a birthday card stuffed with photos then taking a letter to her work and refusing to leave.
Dundee Sheriff Court heard Stewart was 35 when he started his relationship with Jordan, who was then 18. Jordan said the couple had lived together in Monifieth, Angus, but when they broke up, things quickly went sour and she told him not to contact her any more.
She described her treatment at his hands as psychological torture and said her last text to him read: “I’m asking one last time, leave me alone. No more messages, no more photos.
“Please respect this or I will have to take things further.”
 

The court heard how Stewart approached a mutual friend to give Jordan a birthday card stuffed with photos and turned up at the David Lloyd Leisure Centre in Monifieth with some of her mail that had been sent to his flat.
 Finding him not guilty of both charges, Sheriff Brian Cameron said: “I am satisfied the texts were not threatening or abusive and that your approach was measured and with caution.” 
Stewart – who runs Tigers Eye Massage in Carnoustie – is no stranger to the courts. In 2012, the Tayside Police constable was found guilty of assault after he wrapped tape round the head of bail hostel worker Arlene Pattie and handcuffed her.

