STEVE BRUSATTE has spent his entire career travelling the world studying how dinosaurs lived .
But the Scots-based paleontologist has just made some of his biggest breakthroughs – after appearing in a new CSI Jurassic Park-style show.
The Edinburgh University expert is one of the stars of a new documentary which stages a mock autopsy of a giant Tyrannosaurus Rex corpse.
Steve, who has previously worked on the Walking With Dinosaurs games and movie, was part of a team of academics and vets presented with a synthetic T-Rex carcass and instructed to work out its cause of death.
The process and the results will be shown in the new National Geographic show T Rex Autopsy, being screened this weekend to tie in with the new monster movie sequel Jurassic World.
Illinois-born Steve, 30, was originally brought in to help construct the model of its body, but was kept on as one of the experts helping with the analysis of the cause of death.
 

Steve said: “It’s a two hour programme, where we walk in and see the body and get to work just like a vet or a forensic scientist would. It proceeds like a real veterinary autopsy. We try to determine what we have, how big it is, how old it is, what it looks like from the outside then determine how it died.
“There are lots of dinosaur programmes on television, but there has been nothing like this.
“We use what we see to talk about how it lived, how fast it could move, how it hunted, moved and reproduced and there is a big reveal at the end where we see how the thing died, which is a pretty cool story.
“It’s a real re-imagination of dinosaurs to build a life-sized model of the T Rex, with muscles, bone, skin, and organs.
“And not just to build it, but to cut it up and show what it is made of and try to explain what he was like, not as a museum exhibit or a monster out of a nightmare, but as a real animal that lived and fed and moved and grew and reproduced 66 million years ago.
“This has been one of the highlights of my career.”
Steve has become one of the most in-demand and experienced dinosaur experts in recent years and has been working to build up the dinosaur lab at the University of Edinburgh since moving to Scotland from his native Chicago two years ago.
He was a key figure in the Walking With Dinosaurs franchise, advising on the blockbuster film as well as books, toys, games and apps, and has been instrumental in some recent discoveries including a long nosed T-Rex and a tiny velociraptor.
While his science, and his interest in finding out about Scottish dinosaurs, keeps him busy, Steve knows the value of generating interest through TV and film.
He said: “Last summer, the production company got in touch and when they said they wanted to do an autopsy on a T Rex, an alarm bell went off that it might have been some kind of absurd reality show.
“But they made it clear that’s not what this was, it was a new type of dinosaur show, completely up to date with science, and was all about science.
 

“They use a bit of the shock value of dissecting a dinosaur to lure people in and teach people about what dinosaurs are really like.
“People are gonna love it and it’s coming out just a few days before the new Jurassic World movie.
“But those are make believe, this is a show about real dinosaurs, which will show people what the biggest, baddest, most iconic dinosaur was really like.”
Filmed at Pinewood Studios in London, the programme saw Steve and a four-strong team presented with a giant 12 metre model of the T Rex.
Anatomically correct inside and out, the dino corpse was constructed by movie special effects crews with the expert input of paleontologists and vets. Having consulted for months, and studied the beasts all his career, he thought he might know what to expect when he first got to meet his subject.
He said: “It was pretty amazing. They filmed us arriving so they could get that element of surprise and I think it captures our shock and awe pretty well.
“Walking in was a moment unlike any other I’ve ever had as a scientist, I’m normally used to studying with bones.”
The model was filled with fleshy and messy organs and tissue, and the skin covered with feathered quills, made of real goose feathers.

Steve said: “It was long hours, and there was a lot of blood and gore, and corn syrup and food colouring which was very sticky.
“There were four of us on camera, and a huge crew of technicians, the real stars of the show who built the model – what they were able to do was astounding. Nobody has ever done anything like this before in terms of realism and accuracy.”
He revealed the experience has changed the way he looks at dinosaurs.
He said: “Seeing the whole thing life-sized and in the flesh, it’s so accurate and it has really helped me envision T-Rex as a living animal.
“The way that I think about dinosaurs has changed and I’ll take that with me through my career.
“By trying to figure out how it died, we found out how it lived.
“Viewers will come out of the show seeing dinosaurs in a new light, not as monsters but as real animals.”
T-Rex Autopsy will premiere on Sunday, June 7 at 8pm on the National Geographic Channel.
Dr Brusatte is talking about the T Rex for Zoo Nights at Edinburgh Zoo tomorrow at 8pm.
