A one-year-old puppy was savaged by two dogs during a horrific attack on Gleniffer Braes.
Tiny Cassie was part of a group of pooches under the control of a professional dog walker when the two other dogs turned on her.
Owner Emma Ward, who was at work at the time, was called by the dog walker who told her Cassie had been playing with one of the dogs who attacked her before the other dog joined in.
The dog walker, who Emma doesn’t want to name, managed to get the dogs off Cassie and rushed her to the vets where she underwent emergency surgery.

Cassie had a puncture wound in her chest close to her jugular vein and has bite marks all over her body.
Emma said: “When I arrived at the vet, Cassie was only finished in surgery and I was told that she was one very lucky pup.
“The vet told me her puncture wound was very close to her jugular and if this was damaged, her life would have been at serious risk.
“She is very traumatised and subdued due to these events and very lucky to be here with me today.
“I’m praying that Cassie makes a full recovery from this attacked and that she will return to her lovely good-natured self.”
Cassie, who’s a West Highland Terrier cross Toy Poodle, was out with a Staffie cross collie and English bull terrier last Thursday afternoon when the unprovoked attack happened.
Emma said she reported the incident to Paisley police but was told the dog owners couldn’t be charged as the dogs weren’t under their care at the time.
She said: “Then I asked if the dog walker could be charged but they said no because there was no-one else there at the time. I asked them what if it had been a child that was attacked and they said the same rules would apply.
“This was a totally unprovoked attack and, even if the owners aren’t prosecuted, the dogs should be put down as they are a risk to the community
“Cassie is very lucky to be alive but another dog might not be so lucky.
“It’s disgusting. If justice is to be done, those dogs should be destroyed.”
Try your hand at our news quiz

