SPRINT legend Allan Wells admitted he had an injection from a doctor before his Olympic triumph in Moscow.
But the star insists the hydro-cortisone jab was for a mosquito bite – and was legal.
The 1980 100metre gold medallist has been accused by track rival Drew McMaster of being a “regular” doper at the Edinburgh surgery of ex-GB team doctor Jimmy Ledingham in the run-up to Moscow.
McMaster secretly recorded Ledingham saying that Wells got steroids from him and many other sources in his heyday.
 

 But last night, Wells remained defiant over claims aired on the BBC that he repeatedly took  steroids, given by Ledingham and others, ahead of his career-defining success in Moscow. 
 He slammed the BBC Scotland programme as a “stitch-up” devised by McMaster, the  bitter rival he eclipsed on his path to world athletics glory. 
Wells has revealed for the first time how Ledingham – who died in 1998 – gave him an injection days before his gold medal run in Moscow. At that time, such injections were not illegal if administered by a doctor.
 Wells, who was at his home in Guildford being supported by wife Margot yesterday,  told the Record: “He did treat me in Moscow when I was bitten badly by a mosquito at the warm-up track. 
 

“I’d gone down there two days before, maybe the day after we got there. I did the warm-up, did the stretching, put the socks over my tracksuit bottoms and we came back from the track. My foot had swollen and I could feel it through my shoes.
“Ledingham was in the company. I didn’t ask him specifically but he said he could do something for that. He took me through and gave me an injection of hydro-cortisone. I think that’s what he gave me.
“He said it would take the swelling away and it might give me a bit of a lift. It might give you an edge. I said I’ll need to come back and get some more and he said, ‘No, you’ll not, this is it’.
“It wasn’t that he was worried about it or anything and I was quite happy about that. It was a wee joke between us. It wasn’t a big issue. I said I might get one nearer the time but he said, ‘No, that’s your only one’.
 

“It wasn’t a big issue, it was part of the humour, if you like.”
Wells said the only time he was treated by Ledingham at his Edinburgh surgery was at the start of the 1980 season, for a thigh strain. He said: “This was the one time that I saw Ledingham, other than at athletics meetings.”
Another encounter with the doctor happened when Wells was convinced he could miss the Olympics after a lower back problem flared up two-and-a-half weeks before Moscow.
He said: “I phoned Dr Ledingham and I’ll never forget the way he spoke to me, because he said there was nothing wrong with me and he said it was in my head and I should run it off.
“I was in some state and he left me in tears but he referred me to a specialist at the Western General Hospital and I got some great help there on the NHS.” Wells, now 63, said he had received great support since the claims were screened on Wednesday night.
 He said: “I’ve been contacted by several people who have nailed McMaster for the liar  that he is. He is a desperate man and a loser. I admit that it was McMaster who gave me the incentive to win 
“I have been stitched up by the BBC and by Drew McMaster. Frankly, I’m gobsmacked. To say these things about Jimmy Ledingham when he is not here to defend himself is disgraceful. He helped me but not with drugs.
“To say I was taking drugs from all over the place is unbelievable.”
 Try your hand at our sports quiz 

