TWO neighbours in their 60s kicked and punched each other in a brawl about the weather, a court heard yesterday.
In a scene that could have come from Still Game, Derek Gregor and Mike Paton wrestled on the ground after one ignored the other’s comment about a storm.
Former fisheries board superintendent Gregor, 63, ended up charged with assault after the fracas on a path behind their homes.
Gregor, 63, told Perth Sheriff Court: “There had been a terrible storm and I was clearing up leaves and branches. I saw Micky and said ‘How’s it going?’ He just blanked me.
“I said, ‘That was some storm last night.’ He said, ‘Was it?’ and walked on and ignored me. He was being obtuse and he knows it.
“I said, ‘Micky, if you don’t want to speak to me, you can just f*** off’.”
 

Gregor said car body shop director Paton marched up to his fence and grabbed him.
He said: “I was quite taken aback because I was worried about my glasses.
“I thought it was a very aggressive act. I fell to the ground. He pulled me down. The assault happened in my garden.
“There was an absolute fracas. It was just a melee. He was on top of me. I was underneath him lying on the ground. I felt blows coming in.
“I really had to react or I would get a real pasting. I started to grapple with him. There were legs and arms flying around everywhere.
“I can’t recall giving him any kicks to the head. I was wrestling with him because I didn’t want to get hit any more. There could have been kicks during the wrestling match.”
Paton’s partner Linda Band, 57, said she saw Gregor kick Paton in the stomach as many as 12 times.
 

She told Perth Sheriff Court: “Derek was punching Mike. He was trying to knee him in the face and kick him.
“I was pulling and pushing at him, telling him to get off. He just kept going.
“He was kicking him in the stomach, kicking him in the face. Mike did retaliate.
“Derek looked down and saw the blood on Mike’s face and disappeared behind the gate.”
 Gregor, who formerly trained bailiffs for the Tay District Salmon Fisheries Board, denied assaulting Paton in Huntingtowerfield, near Perth. The case was found not proven yesterday. 
As he left court, Gregor told Paton: “It’s your turn next.”
Paton has not been charged.
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

