A PATIENT won a three-year negligence battle against the NHS – only to see the compensation cheque bounce.
Donna McIntosh took the health service to task over a bungled exploratory &shy;operation, and finally won her case.
The 52-year-old was issued a cheque for &pound;3000 but was stunned when it was refused.
A letter from the Royal Bank of Scotland revealed it was rejected because they were “unable to obtain the drawer’s permission”.
Donna, one of the UK’s longest surviving dialysis patients, said: “The cheque arrived from the NHS and I paid it in straight away.
“It showed up on the cash machine when I checked my balance but when I tried to top up my gas, my card was rejected because of a lack of funds.
“I went to the bank and the teller said the cheque from the NHS had bounced. I couldn’t believe it.
“What sort of state must an &shy;organisation like NHS Tayside be in if their cheques start to bounce?”
Donna, from Dundee, won her legal battle with NHS Scotland earlier this year over treatment she received in May 2012 when her liver was ruptured during a routine biopsy.
She was sent home on &shy;painkillers but rushed back to hospital when she worsened.
 

A junior doctor diagnosed a chest infection but it took 11 days from the biopsy until medics spotted a huge bleed from the wound in her liver.
Her condition was so poor that her family were called to the hospital in the middle of the night and told to expect the worst.
Donna was eventually saved by a surgeon from Queen Margaret Hospital in Dunfermline, who managed to stop the bleeding.
Being awarded compensation appeared to bring the episode to a close but she was left trying to sort out the problem herself when the cheque bounced.
She said: “I was asked to return the cheque to the NHS but after I handed it in to the bank, I haven’t seen it since.
“They asked for account details and sort codes. It’s a shambles.
“After what I’ve been through, the last thing I want to do is sort out NHS mistakes.
“They’ve put me through hell as it is.”
Donna started dialysis &shy;treatment at the age of 16 when a streptococcal infection destroyed both kidneys.
Since then, she has had three kidney transplants. The first two, in 1982 and 1986, failed quickly.
 

The third lasted five years before it was ruptured by a surgeon during a biopsy in 2001. Donna thinks the organ could have lasted for decades.
Donna, who has six hours of dialysis three times a week, lives with her partner Steven Hughes, 49, who was lined up to give her one of his own kidneys.
They travelled to Cambridge for the operation last year but it was cancelled at the last minute when tests showed her body was likely to reject Steven’s kidney.
Robert Mackinnon, NHS Tayside’s assistant finance director, apologised to Donna yesterday for the bouncing cheque.
He said: “As soon as I was advised, I arranged an electronic transfer of the money to Ms McIntosh’s solicitor. We are in contact with our bank to investigate what went wrong and to ensure that it does not happen again.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

