A MOBILE chippy boss jumped into the cab of his burning van and drove it a mile-and-a-half out of town to prevent a potential disaster.
Quick-thinking Karol Ciachera didn’t hesitate when smoke began belching out the back of his Roaming Chippy outside his home.
His first instinct was to get the van away from the street for fear it would explode and cause harm to homes and families.
It held two 19kg bottles of LPG, had diesel in the fuel tank and petrol in the generator,
Dad-of-three Karol, 32, of Kelso, in the Borders, told the Record: “I did what I thought was right at the time – that was to get the van outside of the town.
 

 “When I was driving it, I could see the flames in the rear view mirror. I was trying to  drive the van on to a field but I didn’t get that far. 
 ‘When I saw the flames, I decided, ‘That’s the end of the journey now’. I finally realised  the van was properly on fire. I think I was still clinging to the hope as I was driving that it might not be as bad as it looked. 
“You hope for the best but it was really bad and I pulled over. The fire brigade arrived a few minutes later.”
Two fire engines and police from Duns and Kelso caught up with Karol on the Coldstream road. It was closed for more than two hours. The fire broke out shortly after Karol had returned home from his normal Monday route of serving fish and chips to the villages of Ancrum and Heiton and Ladyrig Farm.
The Polish businessman said his van was a write-off but he’s already sourced another and is keen to get back on the road quickly.
He said: “It’s peak season for me with a lot of outdoor events coming up. I also cater for weddings.
 “Fish and chips are becoming popular at weddings, sometimes as a comfort food  in the evening.” 
Karol’s wife Alina said “We are very happy that nobody got hurt and our three little children still have their daddy.”
The cause of the fire is not known but is being investigated.
Alina said: “We can’t speculate about the reasons for the fire but we are sure that it was not vandalism.”
 Try your hand at our news quiz 

