SCOTLAND’S biggest crime writing festival has announced a raft of top stars for 2015.
As the literary world celebrates Agatha Christie’s 125th anniversary, this year’s Bloody Scotland festival will pay homage to crime writing past, present and future.
Top authors Martina Cole, Linwood Barclay, Ian Rankin, Arne Dahl, Val McDermid, Lindsey Davis and Ann Cleeves are amongst the major names confirmed to attend the most star-studded edition of the Stirling-based crime writing festival to date.
Linwood Barclay said: “Not only will this be my first Bloody Scotland, this will be my first Scotland, period. I’m so pleased to have been invited to this festival, and curious to learn whether everything I have learned about Scotland from sitting in pubs in Toronto with Ian Rankin is true.”
The festival, which showcases the best of Scottish and international crime writing in the historic and ancient town centre of Stirling, will run from September 11 – 13 this year.
Some of the most famous crime authors in the world are heading to Stirling to talk about their books.
Events will also celebrate Scotland as the perfect location for crime writing and the scientific aspects of crime fiction, and the festival joins in the Agatha Christie celebrations with an extra special event.
 

Dr Kathryn Harkup, author of the book A is for Arsenic, and Christie expert Ragnar Jonasson, who has been Christie’s Icelandic translator since he was 17, will discuss the art of chemistry Christie used to poison and kill the vast majority of her ‘victims’.
Leading authors Val McDermid and Lin Anderson discuss the science of forensic evidence. Anderson’s Rhona MacLeod novels show her years of research into forensic and scientific detection, while McDermid has recently published a fascinating non-fiction work, Forensics: An Anatomy of Crime.
In a huge coup for the festival, Martina Cole, one of the biggest names in international crime fiction, whose books have sold more than 10 million copies in the UK alone, will offer Bloody Scotland audiences an exclusive sneak preview of her soon-to-be-published novel Get Even, in conversation with Guardian columnist Erwin James.
Speaking about the festival, Ms Cole said: “I’m a big fan of Scotland. I’ve always had a great reception there and I love the rugged beauty of the country as the views are so different from the flat rolling countryside of England.

“I’m very excited about coming to Bloody Scotland with a sneak peek of my new book and looking forward to discussing it with Erwin James. He’s a good friend.”
Linwood Barclay, author of 13 novels including the international bestsellers Trust Your Eyes, A Tap on the Window and No Time for Goodbye, comes over from Canada for a UK exclusive event, to close the festival in style.
Lindsey Davis, the phenomenally popular creator of Roman detective Falco, is guaranteed to fill Stirling’s Albert Halls as she introduces her new novel Deadly Election.
Arne Dahl, possibly Sweden’s most famous crime fiction export, returns to Bloody Scotland following the huge success of his series about the Intercrime Unit on BBC4.
Ian Rankin teams up with Philip Kerr, author of the Bernie Gunther novels, to discuss what happens when your lead detective becomes even more popular than you are.
 

Ann Cleeves will not only be appearing at the festival but will be taking a group of readers on a trip to Shetland immediately after the festival proper finishes for a tour of the landscapes that inspired her Jimmy Perez novels and the hugely-acclaimed BBC TV series.
Scottish crime writers including William McIlvanney, Doug Johnstone, Craig Robertson and Neil Broadfoot look at what make Glasgow and Edinburgh such distinctive settings for noir fiction, while a special true crime event looks sees Tom Wood, one of the leading officers in Edinburgh’s notorious World’s End Murders case, in conversation with journalist Bob Smyth, who covered the case extensively.
Finally, the festival will also include the fourth annual Bloody Scotland Crime Book of the Year Award – a gala dinner in the company of major crime writers. Last year’s winner, Peter May, will be opening the festival in conversation with Val McDermid.
Dom Hastings, Festival Manager, said: “I think we’ve put together a really strong programme this year. We’re delighted to have so many major, internationally successful names visiting Bloody Scotland.
&quot;The breadth of writers in this programme shows what a diverse genre crime writing is – there really is something for everybody. This festival is created for people who are passionate about crime writing and I think that’s something to be celebrated – it’s an open, accessible weekend, and above everything else, it’s a lot of serious fun.”
Paul Bush OBE, Director of Events at VisitScotland, said: “Scotland is the perfect stage for cultural events and we are proud to be supporting Bloody Scotland again this year. The programme for 2015 is as strong as ever, showcasing the country’s top literary talent alongside some of the best international authors on the crime-writing scene.”

