ARCHAEOLOGISTS have confirmed trhe remains of an ancient roundhouse unearthed by teams working on T in the Park’s new festival site.
The 3,000-year-old dwelling was found on Friday by contractors who are preparing the Strathallan Castle estate.
Festival promoters DF Concerts say the find has been properly documented and will not pose a threat to the event or cause delays, insisting the weekender will take place as planned in July..
A spokesperson for T in the Park said that a Perth and Kinross Council archaeologist had already been employed to deal with potential finds and registered the discovery.
 

Workers downed tools when they noticed a patch of earth which was a different colour.
Evidence of roundhouses - historic dwellings made from wood or stone - are fairly common in the Perthshire area and a source involved in site preparation says the discovery poses no threat to the festival.
As a planning condition, all sites of historic interest must be logged by the local authority.
A source said: “We had no idea there was anything there but workers noticed a section of earth that was a different colour and thought it might be something.
 

“When it was checked out it turned out to be an old roundhouse. Apparently they’re quite common in this area. We’re told it is about 3000 years old.
“An archaeologist came out to the site to sign it off and it’s now been catalogued. Work has started again and the discovery won’t affect site preparations for T in the Park.”
T in the Park will take place at Strathallan Estate near Auchterarder for the first time this year from July 10 to 12.
Scotland’s biggest festival was forced to relocate from Balado near Kinross, where it had been staged since 1998, due to an underground oil pipe.
The three-day festival is expected to attract up to 85,000 revellers each day.

FRIDAY 10th JULY : Kasabian, David Guetta, Sam Smith, Rudimental, Fatboy Slim, Hozier, Mark Ronson (DJ set), The War on Drugs, Annie Mac, Hot Chip, The Wombats, Afrojack, Gorgon City, Duke Dumont, Sigma, Jessie Ware, Fuse ODG, The Cribs, Hannah Wants, The Twilight Sad, Prides, Lucy Rose, Slaves, Lower than Atlantis, Kitty, Daisy &amp; Lewis, Lonely the Brave, Indiana, Grant Nicholas, The Beach, Coasts, Blossoms, The Beaches, The Riptide Movement Fort Hope, The Hearts
SLAM TENT : Adam Beyer b2b Joseph Capriati, &Acirc;me, Ben Klock, Eats Everything, SLAM, Telford
 

SATURDAY 11th JULY : The Libertines, Avicii, The Script, Twin Atlantic, alt-J, George Ezra, Jessie J, Courteeners, The Vaccines, Labrinth, The Proclaimers, St. Vincent, Enter Shikari, Seasick Steve, Jungle, Paul Heaton &amp; Jacqui Abbott, Marina &amp; the Diamonds, Idlewild, Jess Glynne, Charli XCX, Palma Violets, Circa Waves, Jack Savoretti, The Strypes, Rae Morris, The LaFontaines, Stevie McCrorie, Sunset Sons, George the Poet, Walking on Cars, The Coronas, Gavin James, Elle King, Vaults
 
SLAM TENT : Annie Mac, Art Department, Gary Beck, Jackmaster B2B Joy Orbison, Lil Louis, Maceo Plex, R&oslash;dh&aring;d, Visionquest
 
SUNDAY

SUNDAY 12th JULY : Noel Gallagher’s High Flying Birds, The Prodigy, Stereophonics, Jamie T, Paloma Faith, Above &amp; Beyond, Alabama Shakes, Kodaline, Catfish &amp; the Bottlemen, James Bay, Clean Bandit, Oliver Heldens, The View, Modest Mouse, Years &amp; Years, Peace, Everything Everything, Admiral Fallow, Ella Eyre, Marmozets, Wolf Alice, Benjamin Booker, Saint Raymond, And So I Watch You From Afar, Young Guns, Black Rivers
 
SLAM TENT : Alan Fitzpatrick, Claude VonStroke, Dense &amp; Pika, Dixon, Dubfire, Loco Dice, Maya Jane Coles, Surgeon and Lady Starlight
 


 
Try our quick entertainment quiz below:

