 THE daughters of cup-winning Inverness football boss John “Yogi” Hughes lit up Hampden  on Saturday – and enjoyed their moment of glory so much they want to do it again next year. 
Twins Victoria and Jessica, 13, stole the show during the Caley Jags’ celebrations at the National Stadium as their dad’s team lifted the Scottish Cup for the first time.
Hughes plucked his girls from the stands and led them on to the pitch to soak up the atmosphere following Inverness’s 2-1 win over Falkirk.
They later appeared on stage with him in Inverness’s Northern Meeting Park to take the cheers of thousands of elated fans – and the girls admitted they were bursting with pride.
Victoria said: “It was amazing. It was a really good experience to be on the pitch and get our hands on the cup. I’m so proud of dad – I hope he brings us back to Hampden every year.”
Jessica added: “I’m really proud that dad has come this far. He’s put a lot of dedication into it so he deserved it. We were in tears after the game.”
 

Hughes admitted having his girls by his side throughout the weekend was important to him. He added: “We had them involved pre-match and round about the players so they were there in the whole build-up to the cup final and the parade in Inverness on Sunday.
“I’ve been in a few finals, as a player and a manager, and never really took them in and appreciated it.
“Last Saturday, I wanted to take every minute in – that’s why the girls were on the park lifting the cup and in every photograph.
“Once I am 10 or 15 years out of the game, I can look at the photographs and what happened, and it will bring a smile to my face. It’s absolutely tremendous.”
Hughes, 50, thanked thousands of fans in the Highland capital who welcomed the team home for a victory parade on Sunday.
He said: “The supporters were fantastic. Inverness is a beautiful city and it’s great when you get fans coming out to applaud what the players have done. The city needs a good football team and we need a good set of supporters. It pulls at my heartstrings when I see all the kids cheering us.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

