LAWYER Bryn Williams is happy to live with a hole in his head – because it could transform the lives of thousands of Parkinson’s disease sufferers.
Bryn, 43, was diagnosed with the devastating neurological condition seven years ago.
But now a barely visible stud in his head behind his left ear is offering hope to him and other people with Parkinson’s.
It almost looks like something from a sci-fi movie – but this technology is very real and could lead to the cure Bryn hopes will come one day and help him walk his daughters down the aisle.
The dad of two, from Bearsden, near Glasgow, is so worried about losing his speech and mobility that he is recording father of the bride speeches, but is hopeful he will never need them.
 

 He was the first Scot to get the Convection Enhanced Delivery micro-catheter system fitted in December 2013 as part of a major clinical trial of a  Parkinson’s drug. 
The titanium port has four holes which lead to catheters into his brain – a system created using a 3D printer.
It injects drugs directly into the brain where they are needed.
Bryn, who has been fundraising for Parkinson’s since his diagnosis, feels he’s the closest he’s ever been to reversing the effects of the disease.
“It’s the best hope there is,” he said.
Parkinson’s is a progressive condition affecting movements such as walking, talking, and writing and affects around one in 500 people in the UK.
Doctors have previously struggled to get drugs through a protective membrane which surrounds the brain.
 

But neurosurgeon Professor Steven Gill and his team at the University of Bristol and North Bristol NHS Trust have come up with a solution in the form of CED.
Bryn, dad to Ella, 13, and Beka, 11, was aware there were dangers of having the system fitted but believes it is well worth the risk.
He said: “It comes down to wanting to walk my children down the aisle. There has to be change for that to happen.
“It hasn’t stopped me doing anything that I want to do. I don’t notice it’s there. Even my barber doesn’t notice it and he’s caught it with the clippers a couple of times. I can still go swimming and on rollercoasters if I want.”
Bryn has to avoid any contact sport where his head could be knocked but is a keen fundraising runner.
The system was inserted in a seven-hour operation under general anaesthetic and Bryn was in hospital for four days.As he’s part of a clinical trial, he can’t comment on whether his condition has changed.
 

But an initial trial for the CED system treated five patients in England with very good results so Bryn is positive.
And he is clear about his reasons for taking part.
He said: “I want to deliver a speech at my daughters’ weddings. If the disease takes its course I won’t be able to walk them down the aisle.
“I don’t know whether I can deliver a speech or not. But I’ve already recorded little bits every time something happens over the years as a back-up.
“And I want to walk them down the aisle – I don’t want someone else to do it.”
Bryn launched the charity Funding Neuro in 2012 to raise funds for research into conditions which affect the brain and spinal column.
And the charity have been supporting the work of Prof Gill and his team.
Funding Neuro have now launched a &pound;900,000 crowdfunding drive with Prof Gill to fund a clinical trial treating 18 children with deadly brain stem tumours, delivering the drugs through the micro-catheter system.
 

While Bryn is hoping the catheter system will help his condition, he says he believes the clinical trial using the same system to help children is hugely important.
“If we can cure one brain disorder then I think many more will follow,” he said.
Fundraising for the cause is a family affair, with Ella running her first 10k alongside her dad last Saturday.
Meanwhile, Bryn, who even climbed Kilimanjaro in 2012 for charity, turns to humour to help him cope with his condition.
He started writing a blog and launched website wobblywilliams.com to offer a positive site for people with Parkinson’s.
Prof Gill said of his work: “We’ve known for years that the protective membrane around the brain stops anything getting through which the brain doesn’t recognise, including many manmade drugs.

“It’s been hugely frustrating that effective drugs cannot effectively cross the barrier – until now.
“We have turned the traditional obstacle of the blood-brain barrier to our advantage.
“The fact that the drugs cannot recross the barrier means we can administer far greater doses of effective drugs for brain tumours, without causing the toxic side-effects of traditional chemotherapy.”
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

 
