TWO lucky people will be given the opportunity to ‘hop’ on a flight this summer to enjoy the ultimate beer-lovers job.
Tennent’s Lager has announced two, year-long brand ambassador placements to help Scotland’s favourite lager to grow, not here in the UK but across in Italy, where Tennent’s is one of Italy’s favourite beers.
The roles – which will be based in Milan and Rome - are described as being “for those with a thirst to do something different” with responsibilities including “chatting to the public about Tennent’s” and “social media posts throughout your travels to help document your year away”, as well as working with the Tennent’s team to help meet their ambitious growth targets in Italy.
Anyone over the age of 18, with a valid passport and a full clean EU driving licence can apply by submitting a video clip (90 seconds or less) along with a CV to theitalianjob@tennents.com explaining why they are the best person for the job.
These are perfect positions for outgoing, enthusiastic and driven self-starters. The ability to speak conversational Italian is mandatory together with a proven track record as a true fan of Tennent’s Lager.
The deadline to submit CVs and video applications is Monday 15th June. The two successful candidates should be available to fly out to Italy late August.
“The idea was brewed up whilst our team were in Italy planning the year ahead,” said Andrea Pozzi, MD of C&amp;C International, who was born in Genova and brought up in Torino.
“Italians have long loved Tennent’s Lager – over there, it’s an award-winning beer that’s a little exotic.
&quot;At the moment Tennent's is already listed in premium locations from the Alps to the Islands and the demand is constantly growing.
&quot;To help support this, we thought it made sense to bring over a couple of outgoing people who could help share their enthusiasm for Tennent’s, as well as the Scottish spirit of the brand. We’ve never done anything like this before, so it really is a unique opportunity!”.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

