A paramedic who knocked down and killed a man in his ambulance has had his four-year driving ban lifted early.
Campbell Fisher, 59, admitted causing the death of 70-year-old Robert Cunningham in Ayr on 19 November 2010.
The driving ban was imposed in October 2012 along with a community sentence of 150 hours unpaid work.
Judge Lady Stacey lifted the ban early after hearing Fisher still works as a paramedic and it would be &quot;helpful&quot; to the community if he could drive again.
Fisher returned to the High Court in Glasgow, where he was previously sentenced by Lady Stacey, in a bid to have the driving ban lifted early. 
His lawyer told the court Fisher continues to be employed by the Scottish Ambulance Service and was described as a &quot;highly trained and experienced individual&quot;. 
Solicitor Euan Cameron added the paramedic works in a rural area and that being able to drive again would be &quot;helpful to the local community&quot;. 
Mr Cameron also told the court that Fisher's elderly parents - who live 30 miles from him - suffered considerable health problems. 
He said: &quot;He struggles to visit them and help with their care. His parents have comfort in seeing him, but that is affected by his inability to drive.&quot; 
Mr Cameron added that Fisher had not &quot;lost sight&quot; of the impact Mr Cunningham's death has had. 
Lady Stacey agreed to lift the ban more than a year early. She told Fisher: &quot;In all the circumstances, I am prepared to remove the disqualification from today's date.&quot; 
Fisher, of Dalmellington, East Ayrshire, will still have to sit an extended driving test and a Scottish Ambulance Service course before getting his licence back. 
In 2012, the court heard how Fisher was driving an ambulance service rapid response car at 16:48 on 19 December while answering a 999 call from a man complaining of chest pains in Ayr. 
Moments before the crash, the 999 call was downgraded from top priority to a non-emergency call on Fisher's on-board computer screen. 
As the vehicle went through the pedestrian crossing on Prestwick Road, it struck Mr Cunningham, who had mild cerebral palsy, basic learning difficulties and had been diagnosed as having schizophrenia. 
Following the collision, Fisher attempted to resuscitate Mr Cunningham, but he died at the scene.
