A TEENAGE girl was diagnosed with a rare brain condition after being knocked out cold during a rugby match.
Lucy McClymont spent four nights in hospital and was paralysed down her right side after being floored by a tackle on the pitch.
The 19-year-old former Dumfries Academy pupil was in surgery for hours while docs tried to relieve pressure in her head.
But the operation didn’t go as well as expected and Lucy was told yesterday that consultants want to carry out further investigations.
“I’m still trying to take in what I’ve been told and I don’t know where we go from here,” she said.
Lucy added: “From the outside I look fine, but my life has changed beyond recognition and it’s depressing to realise it will never be the same again.
“I want to raise awareness of my condition and the risks that sport has on people’s lives.
“Sport was my greatest passion and it’s hard trying to cope with life without doing what I love most.”
Lucy left Dumfries last September to take up a place at Harper Adams University in Shropshire to do a food and consumer studies degree.
A keen footballer who had played for Dumfries Girls FC since the age of six, she took up rugby at university.
But during a game at the end of January, she was seriously injured in a tackle. Paramedics watching from the sidelines rushed to help and she was then taken by ambulance to hospital.
When she woke up, the terrified teen thought she would never walk again.
Back in Dumfries, dad Hugh and mum Christine were horrified to receive a call telling them Lucy was in hospital. But because of the freak weather and snow storms in the region, they were unable to make the journey south to be with their daughter.
Christine said: “Words can’t describe how scared we were. The sick feeling that came upon me has never gone away.”
When Hugh and Christine were finally able to travel the next day, doctors told them an MRI scan revealed Lucy had a neurological condition called Chiari Malformation and needed an urgent operation.
Lucy said: “We were told I might have been born with a mild case of the condition but if I hadn’t had the accident, we would never have known.”
Following decompression surgery at Stoke in March, Lucy remained in critical care for two days before being allowed home to Dumfries with her parents and twin brother Ben.
Being told she’ll never be able to play contact sports again has “depressed” her.
She said: “I’ve not been allowed to do much at all and I’m still recovering from the operation. I can’t believe how much my life has changed just because I was doing something I loved.
“It could happen to anyone playing a contact sport and to hear there’s something wrong with your brain is very frightening.
“I’d love to get back to university but I’ve missed so much work it might not be possible.”
The crippling headaches she’s been suffering from are “worrying”, but mum Christine is thankful her daughter is still here to tell the tale.
“It’s been a very difficult time for all of us and Lucy has a long journey ahead”, she said. “It just shows how life can change so much in the blink of an eye.”
More news from Dumfries

