A PHOTO of a 36-year-old mum’s mastectomy scars has gone viral after she posted it on Facebook to show that “cancer is not a game”.
 Leeanne Curry was so fed up of “silly” crazes on social media to raise awareness of breast cancer – including one where women hold a Coke can between their breasts – that she decided to show the reality of the disease. 
And in the first 24 hours her post, in which she urges women, “Don’t get involved in these silly games just check your damn boobs”, was shared more than 57,000 times on Facebook.
Leeanne, from Drumnadrochit, Inverness-shire, had both her breasts removed earlier this year in a desperate bid to stay alive for her two sons.
 

 She was diagnosed with an aggressive form of breast cancer in June 2012 and beat the disease after 16 rounds of gruelling chemotherapy. 
 But Leeanne, who is mum to Jake, 10, and Rhys, five, made the decision to have a double mastectomy when tests revealed she had a faulty gene that meant there was an 89 per cent chance of her cancer returning. 
She said: “I have no qualms showing my scars to anyone – and now more people have seen them than I ever imagined.
“It’s not about cryptic statuses or Coke cans. I’m the reality and if I’ve helped a handful of the thousands of those shares, then I’ve done my job.
“It’s disgusting trying to make a game out of it. It’s not fluffy, it’s not pink. It’s a disease that can kill you and it’s not to be mocked.”
Leeanne admitted she was taken aback by the huge online response.
She said: “I never expected this. I get a notification every time my post is shared and I think my phone is going to explode.
“I only made it public because I was sick of women showing a Coke can between their boobs.
“If women want to do that, then donate a pound, remove the Coke can and go up to their bedroom and feel their boobs that’s OK – but they don’t.
 “I’m not jealous of them. If they want to get their boobs out, then crack on. But don’t associate it with breast cancer. 
Her Facebook post, which was uploaded on Thursday morning, read: “Ok folks another ‘game’ for breast cancer awareness is to hold a coke can in between your boobs and post on social media … I shall get right on that one shall I?
“Last time I looked cancer is not a game. Cancer patients do not care if you can put a coke can between your tits or how many tattoos too have, what colour your bra is or where you leave your f*****g hand bag.
“And the worst one ever ‘just used my boobs to get out of a spending ticket’ f**k off with that one!
“This photo and yes it’s me is true breast cancer awareness … If you are offended delete me! I have these scars cause I didn’t fancy dying anytime soon … Don’t get involved in these silly game just check your damn boobs!”
 By last night, the post had been shared more than 65,000 times and Leeanne had also received about 2000 messages of support from people around the globe who had seen it. 
She spent two years contemplating her options before having the six-hour operation to have both breasts removed in January.
 Surgeons also removed her ovaries in a bid to reduce the chance of the disease returning, as the rouge BRCA1 gene is linked to both breast and ovarian cancers. 
It the same gene that prompted Holywood star Angelina Jolie to have a preventative double mastectomy in 2013 and have her ovaries removed earlier this year.
Leeanne said: “Staying alive is what it’s all about. I’ve had some lovely messages from people and if I have helped a handful of those who shared my post, then it’s all good.
“Talking about it’s not enough. You’ve got to check your boobs.”
Try your hand at our news quiz

