A controversial Orange Order event dubbed 'Orangefest' is to be held in Glasgow city centre.
Thousands of people are expected to attend what the Order describes as a cultural and heritage day in George Square from 09:30 until 16:30 BST.
The event will include music and speeches and will culminate with a 400-strong parade through the streets. 
An online petition opposing the event has been signed by more than 28,000 people. 
The petition says: &quot;The people of Glasgow and Scotland are sick of their voices going unheard in relation to sectarian, hate-filled orange marches. Now we have to put up with Orangefest.&quot;
It also calls on Glasgow City Council to &quot;answer to the people of Glasgow as to why this was allowed to go ahead in a city-centre location on a busy Saturday.&quot;
The Orange Order described opposition to the event as &quot;uninformed nonsense&quot; and said &quot;the usual suspects&quot; had made a &quot;last-minute attempt at discrediting&quot; it.
&quot;We have to live with the knee-jerk hostility of those who are diametrically opposed to the Order's religious and patriotic principles,&quot; the Order said.
&quot;For everyone else, this event is an open invitation to gain a better understanding of one of Glasgow's oldest and biggest fraternal and charitable organisations, warts and all.&quot;
The Order said that &quot;recent government-funded studies on sectarianism advocated greater public engagement in order to tackle myths and misconceptions&quot; and Saturday's event was &quot;an honest contribution towards that end&quot;.
A religious service and choir singing will feature at the event, which will also have stalls and addresses by leading figures from Orangeism.
Traffic restrictions will also be in place for the afternoon parade.
Members of the County Grand Orange Lodge of Glasgow will assemble at Holland Street at 15:15 before setting off at 15:30.
The parade will follow Holland Street, West Regent Street, Pitt Street, West George Street, Nelson Mandela Place, West George Street, George Square North and arrive in George Square.
