A SCOTS duke told a court how he took part in a police operation to recover a stolen Leonardo da Vinci masterpiece.
Richard Scott, the 10th Duke of Buccleuch, said he played a role for officers before the return of the priceless Madonna of the Yarnwinder in 2007.
The 61-year-old duke told the Court of Session: “I was an actor in a process which they were devising and creating.”
The painting had been stolen from Drumlanrig Castle, Dumfriesshire, then the home of his late father, four years earlier.
 

The duke was giving evidence in a case brought by ex-solicitor Marshall Ronald – who was cleared in 2010 of conspiracy to extort money for the painting’s return.
The court heard the painting was recovered after Ronald, from Lancashire, sent a message reading: “The Lady is coming home.”
He is seeking &pound;4.25million from the duke, money he says he was promised as a reward.
He claims in the civil action that the duke provided a letter of authority confirming that a police officer using the name John Craig was acting as his agent in the recovery of the painting and was authorised to conduct negotiations.
The duke claims that Craig had no actual authority to enter any agreement or negotiate on his behalf.
It is also argued that the agreement Ronald, from Lancashire, relies on is tainted by illegality and/or is contrary to public policy.
And the letter was requested by the police to support Craig’s undercover persona in the operation.
The duke told the court he first became aware of an undercover operation being mounted by police in 2006.
He was told a man called Brown had convinced the police that he had seen the painting and possibly had access to it.
He was asked to talk to Brown on the phone, which he did. “I knew I had to act out a role,” he said.
Andrew Young QC, for the duke, told the court no contract was entered into by the peer and the action must fail.
Ronald said: “I believe I had a contract with Craig and it had agreed the figure.”
Judge Lord Brailsford reserved his decision.
 Try your hand at our news quiz 

