A MOTHER of six whose ex-boyfriend threatened her with a meat cleaver was horrified to discover he had raped and abused seven other women.
Amanda Davis, 48, now fears Jerry McMurray could have many more victims too scared to speak up.
The 35-year-old, from Fife, was jailed last August after being found guilty of 14 charges of sexual assault and rape between 1997 and 2013.
And he taunted his terrified victims from behind bars in a hate-filled letter sent to the Daily Record, in which he branded them liars.
 

But we can now reveal that the evil rapist was locked up in July 2009 for brandishing a meat cleaver outside Amanda’s home when she broke off their relationship.
She said: “I was so shocked when I read in the Daily Record the full extent of what Jerry had done to so many women.
“He had told me he had a past and I thought it was good he was being upfront and honest. But I never knew the full scale of his crimes and now, knowing what these women were put through, I know I got off lucky.
“In the end I was afraid of him – but I wanted to speak out now, because I know there will be more victims out there still too afraid to come forward.
 

“I want other women to know you must speak out and get justice.”
Amanda met McMurray in May 2009 when she lived downstairs from his sister in Cardenden, Fife.
She said: “He was so charming and attentive and would spend hours giving me massages and painting my toe nails.
“He was 30, I was 42, and I was swept away with all his attention and affection.
“Jerry told me he was desperate to get married and we even had each other’s names tattooed on our wedding fingers, but within weeks I started to notice changes in his behaviour towards me.
“Jerry became really controlling and insecure and would time me when I went to the shops.
“He was even jealous of my kids and especially didn’t like me talking to my eldest son or his friends.
“Finally, I broke up with him because I just couldn’t live like that.”
The brave mum ended the relationship in July 2009 but feared for her life when McMurray turned up outside her home with a meat cleaver.
He was jailed for six months but Amanda claims he returned to her home in October that year and brutally attacked her.
She said: “He grabbed me and started kicking and punching me.
“My 10-month-old son was in his baby walker and Jerry managed to pin the baby walker against me so I couldn’t fight back.
“Luckily my neighbour saved me and got help.”
Amanda added: “I still suffer flashbacks, I was diagnosed with depression and I’ve been suicidal.
“But now I know he is behind bars again and I urge any woman who has fallen victim to him to come forward.”
