STREET LEAGUE, the national charity which uses football to tackle youth unemployment, has announced an official partnership with Jewson across Scotland.
The builders’ merchant has pledged to support the charity by providing work placements for up to 100 young people from Street League Academies across Scotland over the next 12 months.
The partnership was officially launched at an event in Toryglen Football Centre in the shadow of Hampden Park, Glasgow on Friday.
It is part of a UK roll-out of the deal which actually began in Scotland several months ago.
Allan Davidson, Scottish regional director at Jewson said:”We are proactive in bringing youth into the business because with youth comes energy and vitality.
“The Street League partnership gives us an opportunity to do that. It is a great benefit to us as a business and allows us to put something back into local communities.
“I’ve met a couple of the lads that have been placed in branches and it is great to see their energy. When I meet them again in six or seven weeks time their confidence will have grown.”
Allan knows what it is like to start out learning new skills.
He joined Jewson 31 years ago on a Youth Training Scheme.
Now he is in charge of a turnover in Scotland of &pound;400 million.
He said: &quot;In 1984 I joined on a government YTS scheme, very similar to young people starting out today, so it is a subject which is close to my heart.
“We are a blue chip company with great induction and training programmes and we’ll offer these boys and girls the chance to gain life experience as well as work experience.
“It is a win, win for me. We’re looking to bring youth into our business and to give the opportunity to succeed.
“With nearly half a million 16 to 24-year-olds in the UK currently without employment, initiatives such as Street League are fundamental in ensuring that young people gain the skills and workplace experience they need. To be able to offer a route to employment through something as accessible as sport is fantastic and we hope even more businesses get involved.”
 

Jewson is committed to 100 placements in Scotland alone.
Of these, 28 young people are already on placements.
Street League uses the power of football to attract unemployed people aged 16 to 24 onto its award-winning academy programme.
On the academy, participants develop key employability skills, such as communication and teamwork, and acquire nationally-recognised qualifications. They also learn to build their CVs and undergo mock interviews - as well as playing football every day.
As part of the programme, participants also join real employers for work experience placements, which last between four and eight weeks, in order to prepare them for the world of work.
Dougie Stevenson, Managing Director for Street League Scotland, said: “Working at Jewson stores gives our young people a fabulous opportunity to hone the skills they have acquired on the Street League Academy, build their CVs and become attractive employees to other employers. We’re also delighted that some of graduates have also gone on to work for Jewson on a permanent basis.”
Street League is based in 14 regions across the UK.
Last year it helped 847 young people progress into work and training and will exceed 1000 for the first time this year.
On the Street League Academy programme, participants spend two hours in the classroom and two hours playing football or sport each day.
Street League deliver academy programmes commissioned by a large range of public sector organisations including the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP), Skills Development Scotland, further education colleges and local authorities in both England and Scotland - as well as through philanthropic support.
Nick Godfrey, 17, Irvine, has been involved with Street League for six weeks.
He said:”I’m really enjoying it. It is football and learning all rolled into one.
“My aim is to get involved with skills development and get a placement hopefully with Jewson.
“I’ve learned a lot already just through learning about preparing cvs and the like.”
Connor McGuinness, 20, south Glasgow, has just landed a full-time job with Graham’s Plumbers Merchants, part of the Saint Gobain Group which also owns Jewson.
He said: ”To get a full-time job and learn new skills has chuffed me and my family to bits.
“Already I’ve learned a lot about copper and pipe work, although I know I’ve still got a lot to learn.
“I start on Monday after doing one four week placement and then an eight week placement.
“I’m lucky really because I heard of Street League from one of my friends and I thought that I just had to apply..”
Martin Weir, 19, Edinburgh , was just laid-off in a previous job as a plasterer and was in a Job Centre when he was told about Street League by someone who actually overheard a conversation he was having with an advisor.
Martin said:”After joining Street League I’ve found out that the previous cvs I was putting together were not very good to be honest.
“I’ve got a much better cv done up now and I’ve also done placements with Jewson already.
“I’ve been told I am quite employable because I’ve done plastering and labouring before.
“But it is about learning new skills and that is my aim just now, then we’ll see where it goes.”

