 AS she opened  the doors to a summer school offering some of Scotland’s most deprived kids the chance to play in an orchestra , Nicola Killean hoped for a good turnout. 
 But what she  saw that Monday morning eight years ago in Raploch, Stirling , was  just a taste of the transformational power her Big Noise programme was to have on young people. 
They were queuing around the building, waiting patiently for their chance to play a classical instrument and to be part of something that had inspired their whole community.
Nicola, 35, is the director of Sistema Scotland, the charity that aims to change lives through music. It was set up following the success of an orchestra movement in Venezuela and now works with 1150 Scots children through their Big Noise Orchestras in Raploch and Govanhill, with a third project being rolled out in Torry, Aberdeen.
It’s a calling that Nicola felt from a young age growing up in Wishaw, when she broke the news to her parents that she wanted to follow a career in music, rather than medicine.
She said: “I loved music but I always loved children too and wanted to do  something that made a difference.
“I didn’t know what that was going to  be but I was never driven by money.”
 After graduating from a music in education course at Glasgow’s Royal Conservatoire of Scotland , she worked in  a nursery before becoming an arts officer with South Lanarkshire Council where she discovered the inspiration for her career. 
 

She said: “The job was partly enhancing and extending the opportunities children and young people had in the arts. The other part was focusing that on young people who had begun to disengage at school.
“I worked alongside social workers, family support workers, health  improvement officers and that for me  was a transformational experience.
“I was designing programmes for the young people they were working with to try to re-engage them with education.
“We had some young people who had low attendance at secondary school and were getting into trouble a lot. They loved dance music and DJing so we found a DJ and they worked in the school with the young people, but the condition was the pupils had to turn up to school on time  and had to wear a uniform and meet  other criteria. It was really successful and a real education about how challenging life can be for young people in Scotland.”
From there, Nicola worked for the Youth Music foundation. She said: “I travelled all over the country engaging with training providers and musicians who were working with young people and looking at the quality of provision we had and what the gaps were. Then, eight years ago, I saw the Sistema Scotland job advertised. I looked at what they were doing and thought, ‘Wow, these are  all the things I really believe in’.
“It was an opportunity for me to be involved from the start and to look at the values and ambitions we wanted for young people and draw on the skills and networks of amazing musicians across Scotland that I’d developed.”
Nicola first travelled to Venezuela  to see a Sistema project in action before launching the first Big Noise programme in Stirling’s Raploch area – once known as one of the country’s most deprived neighbourhoods and which is now the most musical place in Britain with 470 children in a two-square-mile radius actively involved in learning music.
But to convince locals to allow their children to take part, Nicola and her team of musicians first had to show them what they were made of.
She said: “We had a three-month community engagement programme and an ensemble from the BBC Scottish Symphony Orchestra put on a concert in Raploch. The next day the musicians started to work with local primary one to three children. We fast- tracked p3 kids onto string instruments  so we could form an orchestra and show the community how it felt for their child to be part of it.
“The reaction I got was, ‘This is a great opportunity and something we didn’t have growing up’.
“We chose musicians who are great communicators and down to earth. They performed outside the post office and bingo halls, at football clubs. We had this whole schedule to present ourselves to the community. We had to sell ourselves.
“At the end of the community engagement we hired a marquee for the first performance of the Big Noise string orchestra. It was the last day of the school term and people said, ‘The children don’t really go to school on the last day and you won’t get people coming,’ but we had a full marquee. We opened a summer school on the Monday and had a queue out the door and round the building of kids wanting to register. It was amazing.”
 Some of these young people are among the 17 from Raploch who successfully auditioned for the National Youth Orchestra of Scotland. The Big Noise in Govanhill , launched in 2013 and is equally successful with 780 children a week taking part. 
Now Nicola is looking forward to launching Big Noise Torry, with an opening concert planned for June 29.
She is clear about why the charity is getting such good results for the kids
She said: “It’s both the music and longevity of the programme, the fact we are able to work with these children for three or four nights a week over years. We see so many changes in the children in terms of behaviour and confidence.”
The charity has benefited from &pound;300,000 funding to date from players  of the People’s Postcode Lottery.
Nicola said: “It helps massively. What’s great about People’s Postcode Lottery is they build up a relationship with charities and look at long-term relationships. It’s what we need.
“I’m a real believer in the potential that’s there in every child in every community all over Scotland. We just need to give kids the opportunity. We’d like to grow. A recent report showed really convincing evidence on the short and long-term outcomes of the work so it’s a good investment for society and we want to take it to other communities.”
l To find out more about Big Noise  visit www.makeabignoise.org.uk/sistema–scotland/
lFor information on the good causes helped by People’s Postcode Lottery, visit www.postcodelottery.co.uk

