WITH her stern demeanour,  Scots actress Michelle  Gomez has always played scary women very well – from Sue White in Green Wing  to Missy in Doctor Who.
But now the 49-year-old Glaswegian is bossing Americans about as an online agony aunt with a beady eye on turning the character into a live chat show host.
The web series Heather’s American Medicine sees Michelle as a near-the-knuckle dispenser of truth – replying to troubled  video messages.
Michelle, who lives in New York with actor hubby Jack Davenport and their son, said: “The idea is to develop it into a live chat show here in the US. A sort of Mrs Merton let loose on middle America. I’d watch that.

“There’s a bit of Supernanny there. Historically the Americans have always loved a bit of prim austerity wrapped up in a twin set. Blame Julie Andrews. She started it.”
Michelle devised the character with Jesse Cleverly, co-founder of online Wildseed Studios. With her Scottish accent, the thistle motif and the tartan, there’s also a hint of Mrs Doubtfire about Heather. Was she inspired by Robin Williams’ character?
She said: “Mrs Doubtfire was absolutely in there somewhere, in fact we were going for a kind of Sarah Palin meets  Mrs Doubtfire kind of vibe.
“Mrs Doubtfire was likeable but at the same time so wrong. And not just because it was a bloke in  a dress but because she was pretending to  be something she wasn’t and we bought it because we wanted to. She gave us hope and  it made us feel good.”
While Michelle’s strike rate in television has been good with shows like The Book Group, Green Wing, Bad Education and Doctor Who , going online offers a freedom  which she feels actors and writers don’t get  in television.
Anyone with a child – both young and teenage – knows that online and not on television is where many of them now get their entertainment. Heather is Michelle’s first online show.
She said: “Before we launched Heather on the world wide internet, I thought it was just a bunch of strangers screaming  out into the void but it seems there is a real community out there, where people really talk.
“The internet offers anonymity which seems to lessen inhibitions which brings a kind of freedom that the broadcaster can’t afford. Basically we can test stuff out and not fear the dreaded viewing figures.”
Heather’s American Medicine was filmed in Manhattan, Brooklyn and Connecticut with real people encouraged to  phone in with their questions.
 

As well as Mrs Doubtfire and Sarah Palin, the character is  also partly based on American television host Stephen Colbert.
So who is Heather, whose catchphrase is “if it didn’t taste so bad – it wouldn’t work so good”?
Michelle said: “She’s well meaning if a little misguided.  She wants to be significant, make the world a better place. She’s ambitious and deluded. She honestly believes she could run for president, even though she’s Scottish with no visa.
“Society today is bound up in a lot of red tape, people have  lost their voice and ability to speak their mind or talk freely.
“Heather on the other hand is not at all PC, she has old school family values. For her it’s simple – you either put up or shut up.”
That sounds just like Michelle’s most famous character,  Missy. The actress shocked generations of Doctor Who fans  last year when it was revealed her character in series eight of  the sci-fi series was actually the Time Lord’s greatest foe, The Master – back as a woman.
Missy returns for the first two episodes of the new series,  which begins in the autumn.
Such was the success of the character that Missy will be immortalised and made into a doll.
Michelle laughed: “The doll is on order, I’ve seen the  prototype, that was a surreal day.
“She should be in the stores soon. Funny-looking thing –  she and me.
“It’s very exciting to be an action figure, not bad going for a  lady of a certain age.”
Her son Harry, five, already has plans for Michelle – or rather for Missy – to meet the Queen.
She said: “My son is still a bit young to get the whole Who  thing but he does seem determined I should have my own  spin-off, he calls me Missy Who.
“He’s also determined Missy should meet The Queen.  Of course, I support both these ideas wholeheartedly.”
Michelle is throwing herself into the Who world with gusto  and will host the touring Doctor Who Symphonic Spectacular  in October when it comes to her new hometown of New York.
She said: “Finally, I get to walk to work.”
Of course, having a female Master made many fans wonder  if we would soon be getting a female Doctor. Michelle  isn’t so sure.
She said: “I just can’t see past Peter Capaldi’s Doctor right now. I guess maybe one day they could try that but it feels like switching gender with The Master is change enough for now.
“We Whovians are a loyal bunch and  don’t like too much change. I feel like I’ve rocked the boat enough for now, let’s not  sink the whole bloody ship.”
For Scots it’s a real coup given we now  have a Scots Doctor and a Scots baddie in  the show (and of course a Scots boss with Steven Moffat).
Michelle was thrilled to be working with Peter, who she hadn’t worked with before.
She said: “You know we haven’t but we  felt like we had. Both coming from Glasgow means we have a similar sense of humour so there was an instant shorthand. That made for a relaxed working atmosphere which always brings out the best of people. I’m thrilled to be the sand  in his shoe while he reigns.”
She’s staying tight-lipped about what will happen in the opening two episodes of Doctor Who series nine, The Magician’s Apprentice and The Witch’s Familiar.
Michelle said: “I can’t tell you much, I’m too much of a fan  of the show to spoil the fun but I can tell you she’s up to no good.
“Even I was a bit shocked at her level of disdain this year.  She has no boundaries that girl, she is very naughty.”
Although Michelle now lives in New York and is about to  star with Tim Robbins and Jack Black in a new HBO comedy series The Brink, which begins in American on June 21 – she  visits Scotland regularly.
She said: “We’ve been back there often with Harry. He definitely knows his mammy is from Scotland.”
Initially I thought she was from Ayr and she roared: “Ayr? I’m from Glasgow. My family live in Glasgow so I don’t go to Ayr  much. Unless I fancy a bag of chips.”
Ouch! That’s my medicine taken.
l You can watch Heather’s American Medicine here http://wild.sd/heather

