FINAL preparations are underway in Glasgow for this weekend's Big Lunch.Now in its seventh year, the UK-wide event encourages people to get to know their neighbours and create closer communities.Several events are taking place across the city tomorrow (SUN), including in Dennistoun, Queens Park, Possilpark, St George's Cross and Rutherglen and Bishopbriggs.Lesley Anne, who has been taking part in The Big Lunch with her neighbours in Cathcart over the past few years, said: &quot;Our street has a massive age gap, from babies to elderly neighbours in their 90s.&quot;Getting involved felt like the perfect excuse to bring everyone in the community together. It may only be one day a year, but it does make a difference. It's helped to build trust and a greater sense of community and that in turn creates a safer and happier place to live. We're looking forward to our event again this year and would encourage other Glaswegians to give it a go!&quot;Evening Times columnist Michelle McManus, who has supported The Big Lunch for the past three years , said: &quot;I really believe in the benefits of being part of a strong community like the one I grew up in the East End of Glasgow. &quot;Even today, I cherish the great relationships I am lucky to have with my own neighbours. Knowing who you live beside makes you feel safe and connected to your community. Events like The Big Lunch provide an excuse to chap your neighbour's door and break down the imaginary barriers that might exist. You never know what might happen in your community after a chat over a few sandwiches and some cake!&quot;The event is supported by the Halifax and the bank will be hosting a Big Lunch at the Fred Paton Centre, St George's Cross, from 10am to 4pm.Fun family activities will be run throughout the day to raise money, with events including a bouncy castle, face painting, a raffle, cake stall and food and drink and the Lord Provost will be in attendance.Halifax customer advisor Amy Williamson said, &quot;We're really excited to be hosting a Big Lunch event at the Fred Paton Centre. There will be lots of fun activities for all the family to raise money for charity and we are looking forward to welcoming everyone from the local community along. The Big Lunch provides a great opportunity for us to talk to people on a more personal level and really helps strengthen relationships in the community&quot;.Last year, more than 4.83 million people took part in Big Lunches across the UK, including thousands from Scotland, who held street parties, picnics in the park and community hall gatherings.