 AS a teenager , he won every major tennis tournament in the land, was Scotland’s No1 and ranked fourth in Britain, beat Wimbledon champion Pat Cash and represented his country at the World Championships. 
Today, Malcolm Watt is unable to talk about these achievements.
But to see him play tennis is to be left without a doubt – the 46-year-old remains one of the best players in the country for his age.
 Malcolm was just 42, a young father, husband and nationally respected competitor and coach when he was diagnosed with frontotemporal dementia , becoming one of the youngest people in Scotland living with the illness. 
The disease attacks the areas of the brain associated with decision-making, behavioural control, emotion and language, robbing individuals of the ability to communicate even their most basic needs.
Yet despite being struck by the cruel illness in the prime of his life, Malcolm was crowned 2013 Scottish indoor champion for his age group. And although his life has been gradually dismantled by the cruel progress of the disease, the sport to which he gave so much is now giving him something worth much more than any medal.
 Malcolm – who 25 years ago beat 1987 SW19 champ Cash in a tournament in France – lives in Helensburgh with his parents, unable to look after himself. Except when he’s on a tennis court. 
 

Dad Tommy, 74, said: “In the eyes of some coaches, Malcolm was the dominant player of his generation. He had fantastic hand-eye coordination and fitness.
“He was winning tournaments from when he was 12 years old, won a tennis bursary to Stirling University and was sponsored by Pringle and British Airways. He was just short of world class.”
Tommy first noticed a change in his son – the eldest of his three children – around six years ago.
“Now and again when I spoke to him on the phone, he would suddenly go off at a tangent and start speaking about something else,” he said.
“I didn’t ever say anything, I didn’t want to start a row. But I certainly did think it was an illness.
“Another time, my daughter was filling in an application form with Malcolm and realised he couldn’t understand it. Then, in 2011, I got a call from Newlands Tennis Club (where Malcolm coached). He’d been coaching a good friend who grew concerned about him and spoke to someone at the club. They got in touch with me saying, ‘Something’s wrong with Malcolm’.”
After tests, Tommy was given the news that would change his family’s life. He said: “The doctor sat us down and explained that my son had frontal lobe dementia.
“It meant nothing to me. And when I asked, she said Malcolm had no idea either, that he could no longer understand what we were talking about. It was a huge shock but I wasn’t completely surprised. We knew something was wrong.”
Malcolm’s marriage disintegrated and his 70-something parents found themselves caring for their sick son, himself the father of a nine-year-old boy.
Tommy said: “We were told to keep him as fit and active as possible because that might slow down the progress of the illness.
“Now, tennis is the only interest in Malcolm’s life. He has retained his standard to a pretty good level and the tennis community has been fantastic.
“I couldn’t emphasise enough the importance of the game in his life. The actual mechanics of speech are not a problem but he can no longer hold a conversation or make his wishes known.
“There are no flecks of his personality there any more and he can no longer sensibly communicate. Yet on the tennis court you wouldn’t think anything was wrong with him, although we’ve been told to expect that will change as the condition progresses.
“Tennis has been a saving grace. The doctor who diagnosed the condition explained that while they don’t fully understand the illness, some elements of behaviour like competitive instinct are hard-wired into the brain.
“Malcolm has been playing tennis since he was 11. His brain is still instructing his body to work the same way.
 

“He might need help with the score and being told when it’s his turn to serve but he can still hit the ball with skill. He’s still better than most people he plays with.”
Devoted dad Tommy made the decision to speak out about his son’s condition ahead of a charity tennis match in Glasgow today, to raise funds for The Scottish Dementia Clinical Research Network’s research into the disease.
Actors Sanjeev Kohli and Greg Hemphill will join stars from the world of football, TV and radio, including Alan Rough and Kaye Adams, to play at the fundraising event at Western Tennis Club.
Funds will go to the Elena Baltacha Tennis Foundation as well as journalist Sally Magnusson’s dementia charity Playlist For Life. Tommy said: “It’s important to distinguish between this condition and Alzheimer’s. FTD is nothing like Alzheimer’s and that can make it difficult to get carers.”
Malcolm will continue to be involved in tennis as a hitting partner to assist club coaches.
Tommy said: “Luckily we are a sporty family. Both his siblings Shona and Stuart are good players and they have reinforced the determination that although FTD may be thought of as a silent assassin, to every circumstance there is an exception.
“Malcolm may rarely hit the ball out. But in this instance, with the amazing support he has received from his sister and brother, friends and medical staff, he is intending to smash FTD well and truly out of court.”


