THE father of a teenage boy killed in a horror road crash has blamed a “show-off” driver for the tragedy.
Popular Brian Phimister – known as Phimmy to pals – died when the BMW he was a passenger in ploughed into a tree.
The 16-year-old was pronounced dead at the scene of the accident on the A955 Dysart to Coaltown of Wemyss road in Kirkcaldy, Fife.
The 18-year-old driver of the BMW 3 series suffered serious injuries in the crash, which happened at around 12.50am.
 

Writing on Facebook, Brian’s heartbroken dad John said: “Because of some f***ing idiot driver trying to show off, my son, my baby boy, is now dead on the mortuary slab.
“My boy has been stolen from me, my life torn apart, my baby boy killed before he could even take the wheel of a car and do what he loved.
“How am I to live without you Brian Phimister. I love you so much. RIP son.”
Friends also took to social media to pay tribute to the former Balwearie High School and Adam Smith College student.
Andrew Herd said: “Heart goes out to John Phimister and the rest of the family. Another young person taken far too soon. Rest in peace Brian.”
Sandal Donna McCallum said: “RIP Brian Phimister, another life taken far too soon. Fly high wee man. Thinking of John Phimister and his family at this heartbreaking time.”
The road was closed for several hours to allow accident investigators to work at the scene.
Police appealed for anyone with information or who may have witnessed the crash to come forward.
A spokesman said: “A BMW 3 Series car left the road before colliding with a tree, resulting in serious injury to the 18-year-old male driver and his 16-year-old male passenger.
“The driver has been taken to Victoria Hospital in Kirkcaldy for treatment, however the passenger was pronounced dead at the scene.
“Inquiries into the full circumstances surrounding this incident are ongoing and anyone who can assist road policing officers with their investigation is asked to contact police immediately.”
Inspector Brenda Sinclair added: “This was a serious road traffic collision in which a 16-year-old lost his life and my sincere condolences go to Brian’s friends and family.
“Our officers are currently pursuing various lines of inquiry to establish the full circumstances surrounding this collision and I’d urge anyone who can help with our investigation to come forward.”
