THERE is a big hole in any claim of The Crafty Pig to  be taken as a serious player in Glasgow’s bloated burger scene.
 It is called the Donut Burger and we’ve reached saturation point in more ways than one when food begins to parody itself. The look  of this bar on the Great Western Road is unashamedly redneck, but one of their signature burgers? It’s a brass neck. 
The owners of The Crafty Pig should skip forward a couple of pages to Shari Low’s book club  if they’re looking to find a story with a happy ending.
Well, actually, that’s not true – as boozers go they’ve gone some way to creating a little cracker, even if the execution  of the vision, like the refurb itself, has not been seen through satisfactorily. Upstairs, they have vibrant, friendly staff and punters, two pool tables through the back, a decent sound system and a range  of so many beers the fridges are a window on a world atlas of alcohol.
The decor is Louisiana louche with corrugated iron on the walls, painted bare brick and long wooden benches for communal dining and drinking. Downstairs, sadly, they’ve ignored the drab toilets all together, which jars because you’re left with  a concept that feels more Haphazard than Dukes of Hazzard.
On the plus side, the pub’s resident dog, Harpo, will high five kids and adults with his front paw  for treats, which was infinitely more entertaining than the food we would soon be served.
The Crafty Pig prides itself on being the most canine-friendly boozer in the city (two Alsatians were doing tequila slammers at the  bar when we arrived and a Beagle was outside enjoying a smoke). It does serve dogs – and buns, burgers, wings and ribs, all under the guise of a barbecue pit place. It throws up images of sunsets dropping like molasses in southern US states, the pictures in  your head almost always better than the reality delivered to the table.
Unfortunately, so it proved, as a  visit to The Crafty Pig only underlined the belief the burger revolution has gone far enough and can restaurants stop trying to outdo each other with ridiculous variations on a theme?
My glazed donut, sliced in half and filled with double cheeseburger, bacon and kola kube BBQ sauce, would have prompted even Elvis to reach for the Vegas phonebook to suss out his  local WeightWatchers.
The donut was deep-fried, soaked in oil and made a trip to the confectionery stall at the SECC seem like a visit to Andrew Fairlie at Gleneagles. It was a struggle to start and impossible to finish.  The burgers were more charred than chargrilled, the cinderous texture giving  way to dried beef on which thin cheese hadn’t so much been melted as forced to cling like molten lava cooling to rock. The chips were thin, stringy and straight from the freezer  and the presentation was as cheap as the burger was expensive – the plastic serving bowls may be low rent and gimmicky but  they grate when you’re spending a tenner.
The kola kube sauce? Our waitress insisted it has been squirted through the donut hole before being served but the only taste hovering around my tongue was charred  beef and fried sugar. Thankfully, Lewis fared better with his Mexican spicy burger. This time, he reckoned his beef was well seasoned with a pleasant kick and was juicy enough not to have to reach for the ketchup to soften it up.
However, our shared plate of nachos also failed to impress. Half the chips were oily, the other half had been dried out under the grill with the cheese, processed and glutinous. It was too heavy and remained half uneaten, not least as the cheese bound everything together in a soggy mess. The opportunity to end the meal on a high was not taken, with a sundae that was only so-so, with a rich, gooey chocolate base barely complemented by a squirt of synthetic whipped cream on top.
Lewis went for the cookie dough, which required 10 minutes to prepare and yet  still emerged cold and undercooked at the bottom and even he drew a line when the sugar began to grind between his teeth.
 Mine were on edge too , when the bill was presented and I discovered a pint glass of diet coke, half-filled with ice, had been charged  at a staggering three quid. The government are trying to introduce minimum pricing  for alcohol and it’s about time they introduced maximum pricing for soft drinks in bars and restaurants. The food and drinks industry  in Scotland has much to admire but the mark-up many pubs and restaurants demand for non-alcoholic drinks is a blight on its reputation. It’s crafty – and it’s pig ignorant. 
 ● Got a restaurant you want reviewed? Contact me at g.ralston@dailyrecord.co.uk or via Twitter @garyshotplate 

