THE last time I appeared live on stage at the King’s Theatre, I was wearing a Brownie uniform and singing round a campfire.
 I rather hoped, 40 years later, that my return might be in a shimmering cocktail gown. Performing a torch song, slithering over a grand piano. That kind of thing. 
Instead, I stood in a room full of washing machines being helped into a sack.
Spamalot, the Monty Python musical, is in town and they had a vacancy for a hay baler. This is a walk-on role that involves wearing something hot and hessian, carrying a bale of hay and getting a big laugh.
It was sweet of them to ask, so I tried not to be a diva as Iwan Harries, head of wardrobe, lowered the sack over my head.
After he arranged me into its muesli-coloured folds, we gave it the once over.
“I would say this is a two-tone sack,” he lilted in his deep Welsh accent. “Distressed with rough edges. Looks a bit like the unborn lamb.”
My role in Spamalot – which is performed by a different guest at every performance – was not demanding.
The singing, dancing, elaborate costume changes and clip-clopping with coconut shells are taken care of by the cast. They began rehearsals in December and have been on the road since January, so they know what they are doing.
I was glad somebody did.
 

 With my sack in place, the company manager guided me through narrow stairways and signed, poster-lined  corridors. Through double doors, into a scruffy space with gaffer tape scars on the floor, mysterious wooden structures piled on top of each other and what looked like a lot of random junk from a car boot sale scattered around. 
 Welcome to backstage. On the actual stage – which doesn’t look like a stage from where I stood – 15 people in  wig caps and jogging bottoms performed free-form Pilates exercises. 
They flexed and wriggled and stretched and pulled. Then an electric piano started up and they contorted their faces into improbable gurning positions and sang scales. While extending their hamstrings.
Joe Pasquale, the star of the show, was down there limbering up with the chorus girls. His son, Joe Tracini, does an impressive bridge position. Once they were all raring to go, there were a few announcements. The main one was that I am here and will be their hay baler for this matinee performance.
 They welcomed me with such enthusiasm that I wonder if they misheard and thought Elaine Paige was walking among them. But it turns out that they are just really lovely and sweet and delightful, which was a huge relief for an amateur in a burlap smock. 
We had a rehearsal. It became clear that I was basically a visual joke.
King Arthur and his knights are on their way across the world to find the Holy Grail. (Spamalot is based loosely on both the legend of Arthur and the film Monty Python and the Holy Grail.)
To represent their travels, they do dances from various countries.
To indicate they are traversing Russia, they perform a Cossack kicking number. Just as it is about to finish, I scoot on to the stage with my bale of hay. At the end, they all shout: “Hey!” I give a confused look and zip off again. And that’s it.
 The rehearsal seemed straightforward. Everyone told me I was fabulous. What would they have been like if I’d worn a bowler hat and stockings and sung Cabaret? That will have to wait for next time. 
When it was time for the cast to get ready, I was relieved to see that some of them were also wearing unattractive sacks. Spamalot is, Richard Astbury told me as he waited to be dragged on feet first in a medieval goonie, a busy show.
 

This is luvvie-speak for many costume changes and general jumping about. He was not wrong.
As I waited in the wings – I’ve always wanted to wait in the wings – the show unfolded. It is a charming and hilarious piece of nonsense, even for those of us who find the original works of Monty Python a little tiresome.
Python Eric Idle has trimmed and rejigged it for the 21st century. With a light touch, he has added just enough contemporary humour to freshen it up without losing the period charm of the original.
At one point, Joe Pasquale is confronted by chorus girls in jewelled red leotards and pointy Queen Guinevere hats. “Ooh,” he says, leering over his glasses. “What happens in Camelot stays in Camelot.” Pasquale is a great frontman. His shambling, speccy style sits very comfortably with the Python humour.
 His son – small, also speccy and a dab hand on the coconut – makes a fine fall guy. They are a top team on stage and keep each other right when they are off it. 
The audience, bus pass holders to a man and woman, love them.
I’m pretty keen on them, too. They remembered my name. “Hey, Anna, how are you getting on?” they asked as I stood around like an unwanted prop, waiting for my big moment. “Is everyone looking after you?”
They sure did. Men in nightcaps and ornate coats of armour popped by for a word while they awaited their cues. There was quite a lot of chatting backstage. At one point, Sarah Earnshaw had a costume change between singing numbers.
Her dresser arranged her next frock in a puddle on the floor, with the shoes in the middle, so she could step right in.
They did this together while Sarah swigged from a bottle of water and fanned herself. “I worked too hard out there,” she said.
The stagehands, theatrical ninjas with head torches and head microphones, hefted swords and shields through the flats.
At one point, a woman folded herself up and sat inside a piece of scenery on wheels. It could have been a sailing ship or a wave – I could only see the back. I got shifted around too.

 Then the company manager reappeared to give me my five-minute call. At one minute, I picked up my hay bale and eyed the marks on the stage. Two pieces of yellow tape. 
 Instructions ran through my head. Walk briskly, put feet beside tape. Do not drop the hay. Listen for cue. Make face. March off again while the audience laughs. 
And hey, it all went off brilliantly. What the audience thought of a woman with long dark hair and red lipstick wearing a sack was doing holding a fake farmyard prop, I have no idea but they were very indulgent and seemed to find me funny.
Then it was all over. Back to wardrobe to defrock. Past the posters autographed by the cast of the panto and Marti Pellow, out of the stage door, into the drizzling reality of normal life.
No fans waited for a selfie or asked me to sign their programme.

