A GANGLAND killer has been caught with mobile phones in his high-security prison cell for the eighth time.
Hitman Jamie Bain had a year added on to his sentence last week after he was convicted of having two smuggled mobiles.
He has now had more than four years put on his life sentence for phone crimes.
Prison officers found a phone stuffed down the toilet of his cell in Shotts prison, Lanarkshire, last September.
A second handset was found concealed in his bin 24 hours later.
Bain, 31, who murdered former Scottish boxing champ Alexander McKinnon in an Edinburgh pub, was convicted of illegally possessing the phones at Hamilton Sheriff Court.
It’s believed he’s using the phones to run his criminal empire behind bars.
Last year, the Sunday Mail revealed how one in five inmates in Scotland may have illegal access to phones.
More than 200 were found in Shotts and Glenochil jails in a 42-day period this year – double the amount confiscated in 2013.
But no one has been caught as often as Bain, who blasted his victim with a sawn-off shotgun in the Marmion Bar in Gracemount, Edinburgh, in 2006.
He was also convicted of attempting to murder James Hendry, 27, the victim’s brother-in-law, in the same attack.
Bain will serve a minimum of 22 years before he can be considered for parole.
He was caught with a phone six times between October 2011 and September 2013 at three different jails. Guards at Saughton prison in Edinburgh once opened his cell door and found him in the middle of a call on a &pound;200 Blackberry.
Last year, Bain sent pictures of himself relaxing in his cell to several women – weeks after marrying his childhood sweetheart Dionne Hendry in prison in July.
In 2013, pictures of him relaxing with his family at home in Gilmerton, Edinburgh, were posted on Instagram after he was given short-term “compassionate leave”.
A Shotts prison insider said: “Lifers like Bain don’t really care about the court appearances and the extra time on their sentence. It’s a day out of jail to them.
“Every time they’re caught with a phone, they seem to get another.”
The Scottish Prison Service said the increase in mobile discoveries was because they were getting better at finding them.

