SHAMED boxing champ Craig Windsor has been jailed for paying a homeless man &pound;4 to phone police and threaten to shoot a woman.
Banned light-middleweight Windsor asked the tramp to dial 999 and claim a friend of his ex-partner was going to be shot.
Windsor, 32, who was quizzed over the gangland shooting of Kevin Gerbil Carroll, paid the man the paltry sum to make the bogus call.
The homeless man, who was ordered to use the name Robert Jeffrey when he made the call, told officers that Cheryl McLoughlan would be shot within two days by James Kane, her former lover.
Windsor admitted paying the man to make the call to cause “annoyance, inconvenience or needless anxiety” to Cheryl.
Glasgow Sheriff Court heard he came up with the plan after a night out drinking and spoke to the homeless man in Glasgow’s Sauchiehall Street.
After receiving the call in January 2014, police visited Cheryl to warn her of the threat and make sure she was safe.
Windsor’s defence QC Gordon Jackson branded his client’s actions “stupid” and stemmed from “ill feeling” between Windsor and his ex.
He said Cheryl – a very close pal of Windsor’s former partner – had joined in in the dispute.
After being jailed for 108 days Windsor, who now runs a gym and a supplement shop, was released pending an appeal.
Last year, he accused police of bugging his gym in Coatbridge, Lanarkshire, after he found a tiny recording device.
He claimed he was targeted because police suspect he is involved in the drugs trade, which he denies.
He also thinks the snooping is linked to the murder of gangster Carroll in January 2010.
The guns used in the murder were found dumped near his gym. Windsor was quizzed over the shooting but never charged.
Last month Billy Paterson, 35, was jailed for a minimum of 22 years after being convicted of Carroll’s murder. And the Sunday Mail revealed last week that prosecutors have not given up on nailing a second gunman.
Steroid cheat Windsor was banned from boxing for three years and nine months by UK Anti-Doping in 2012.
The following year he launched his own organisation – the European Boxing Foundation – and promptly won its title, beating a Mexican opponent in a first-round knockout.
