DEATHS from heart disease – Scotland’s biggest killer – could be slashed after scientists discovered a new treatment.
 Experts at Glasgow University have started using MRI scans and computer models of attacks which  will help to treat desperately ill patients. 
The computer models show the extent of the injury, future risk and how a patient is likely to respond to medicine.
It means treatments and drugs can be tailored for patients and could reduce the number who need to go under the knife. It could also put an end to some animal testing for drugs.
Professor Colin Berry, who led the research, said: “We take MRI scans of the heart. The mathematicians are then able to analyse the information in the scans and create a new measurement and new forms of information that were just not available until now.
 “In engineering terms, they are engineering the heart function. It is creating a whole new insight into  something we had otherwise not imagined was possible. 
 

“There are opportunities for personalised medicine. We can mathematically recreate the patient’s heart.
“We believe that information is so powerful that it will help us better define the nature and extent of the heart injury and help us predict the clinical course for that patient and the potential to respond to treatment.”
Prof Berry and colleagues have recently completed the world’s largest heart attack study involving MRI scans, supported by the British Heart Foundation.
They believe those results, combined with the latest computer modelling techniques, are expected to show major new insights into heart attacks and how patients should be treated.
Prof Berry added that the new modelling techniques could replace animal testing.
He said: “If you have a mathematical framework that allows you to reliably predict an outcome, you can apply your new drug into that mathematical model. It is a replacement for a lab rat, rabbit or other animal.”
Research published on Thursday showed more women are dying from heart disease than breast cancer.

