LIKE your team’s equaliser in injury time, it is better late than never.
 But the SFA’s flip-flop on the so-called Qatar Airways Cup was as predictable as it was inevitable. 
 After Scotland won what had been breathlessly announced as the inaugural cup at Easter Road on Friday, the SFA tell us today that there will be no more. 
They would never say it out loud, because they don’t say anything that matters out loud, but it can only be seen as an attempt to distance themselves from the desert state at the epicentre of a maelstrom of controversy surrounding their hosting of the 2022 World Cup.
 Of course, the SFA’s attempts to tip-toe away would have been more credible if it came before they sent their most senior executives to build bridges in the desert. 
 They were, of course, entertained by their grateful, billionaire hosts just miles from the slave camps where immigrant workers building the World Cup infrastructure live in squalor and toil in fear. 
The SFA were told then – by the Sunday Mail and others – to take a look at themselves but insisted they were only doing what any far-thinking national football association should be doing. They weren’t. They were kowtowing to the Qataris for no good reason. What did they hope to achieve by so publicly backing the sheikhs?
 

 Nothing apart from implicitly defending the indefensible. Of course, things are different now. Now that the washing lines of dirty laundry stretch from the Fifa headquarters in Zurich to the Edgar Hoover Building at 935 Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington DC. 
 Now that every football association in the world is up on the moral high ground and condemning Fifa’s stinking mess of  bribery, nepotism, old pals and payola. 
Well, like that equaliser, the criticism is also better late than never but, for years, these football associations, the SFA included, have had plenty of chances to shoot at Fifa and refused to pick up the ball, never mind put it on the spot and take a run at it.
Instead, they packed their blazers and passports, unpacked their principles and joined the morally-defunct circus of world football governance, staggering from one sumptuous banquet to another, one five-star suite to the next, while trying to ignore the smell.
 It is the SFA’s bad luck – although you can make your own luck – that they rushed to the desert, against good advice, just before the FBI unpacked their handcuffs in Zurich. 
  
