FROM her bedroom window on the 22nd floor, 12-year-old Roza Salih had one of the best views of the city.
But peering out of the high-rise flat in Knightswood, Glasgow’s glistening grey panorama was as familiar to her as the back end of the moon.
Thirteen years later, Roza glances out from the seventh floor of the Strathclyde Union building, where her days are filled campaigning for equal rights for students.
In 2001, Roza and her family had just arrived in Scotland following a difficult asylum dispersal process in London.
They had escaped their home of Kirkuk, the Iraqi Kurdish city 150 miles north of Baghdad, during the reign of Saddam Hussein.
 Roza’s father was a teacher. His crime was to speak out against Saddam’s regime of oppression and ethnic  cleansing in Kurdistan. 
Her grandfather and two uncles were executed under the &shy;dictatorship, while her father is still a wanted man in his homeland.
Recalling the uneasy transition between the two cities, Roza says: “I saw things no child should ever have to see in Kurdistan or anywhere. The memories will stay with me forever.
“But when I arrived in Glasgow, there was a new set of barriers.”
 Separated from her father while he was held by immigration officials in Birmingham, Roza, her mother and  two-year-old sister Raz struggled to adapt to a new life in this unfamiliar Dear Green Place. 
“I didn’t speak a word of English,” Roza says. “I would take 22 flights of stairs just to avoid people in the lift.
“Opening the fridge, sometimes there was only bread and eggs to feed the three of us.
“It was very isolating. In the flat we had no television or books.
“We had no idea about the geography of the area, so when we had to go to a particular shop with our food vouchers, we’d take this really long way round for what was actually just a five-minute walk in the opposite direction.”
With her dad having now joined the family, Roza was of secondary school age, though she didn’t enrol fully into education until her third year.
Attending the bilingual classes taught by Drumchapel High’s English teacher Euan Girvan gave her confidence to step into the mainstream.
“Mr Girvan was a fantastic teacher,” she says. “Many of us in the same situation learned so much quicker due to his dedication and kindness.”
At the time, Drumchapel High had one in eight pupils from asylum-seeking families. Roza formed a tight bond of friendship with seven girls – Scots and asylum seekers – who became known as the Glasgow Girls.
She says: “I didn’t have any trouble at school. I was a fighter but not in the physical sense. I stood up for all the asylum seekers whenever I saw an injustice against them.”
But the fear of deportation hung heavy over Roza and her peers.
Their worst nightmare was realised when close friend Agnesa and her family were removed from their home in a terrifying dawn raid. Then Roza and her friend Amal were the subject of the short film series, Tales from the Edge.
Agnesa’s plight and the subsequent campaign to stop her deportation back to Kosovo became the core storyline of the short film, which took Roza and Amal from collecting signatures at school to the door of then First Minister Jack McConnell.
Within weeks the injustice against Agnesa’s family was being highlighted in the media.
The Glasgow Girls’ campaign had caught the imagination of ordinary people and ultimately resulted in victory for Agnesa and her family.
Roza says: “It was a horrible situation. If Agnesa had been deported back to Kosovo, she could have been raped or murdered.
“It was an incredible and emotional time. We couldn’t have done it without the support of Glasgow people. They saw Agnesa and her family not just as asylum seekers but as one of them.” In the decade since, the Glasgow Girls’ inspirational story won an Amnesty International award and was the stimulant for two BBC documentaries, a National Theatre of Scotland musical and a BBC drama.
Roza says: “It’s been a growing movement, not just us original seven girls. It has always been about social justice and asylum seekers’ rights.
“Even though Agnesa came back, we had friends who didn’t.”
While each of the seven girls have followed different lives, Roza remains the most active, fuelled not least by her role as Strathclyde University’s vice president for diversity and advocacy.
She was 19 when the family’s asylum application was officially approved after two previous rejections.
Last year she worked with the Scottish Refugee Council and Education Strategy Commission to spearhead a case for funding directly from Strathclyde University for three scholarships for asylum seekers.
Roza says: “When I started this job, I didn’t think real change was possible. But I’ve learned through hard work that I can make a change.
“The scholarships were a great win for equality.”
She also continues to speak out about the violent political struggles that still blight her Kurdish homeland.
She admits: “I couldn’t go back there to live. Glasgow is my home now. I have been here for over half my life.
“I feel like a Glasgow Girl in many ways.”

