 MESH implants at the centre of a &pound;100million compensation payout in America have been used in operations by more than half of Scottish NHS boards. 
Six out of Scotland’s 11 health boards used either Advantage Fit or Pinnacle implants manufactured by Boston Scientific.
The firm were ordered to pay record mesh compensation, equivalent to &pound;65million, to victim Deborah Barba, 51, after a jury found the firm were negligent in the design of both devices.
 The same implants have been used in hospitals in NHS Greater Glasgow &amp; Clyde, Fife, Tayside, Dumfries, Lanarkshire and Forth Valley. 
Women across Scotland were also given other implants responsible for massive injury settlements over treatment for bladder and pelvic organ prolapse.
 Labour MSP Neil Findlay said: “Scottish women will be shocked to learn they may have been given implants involved in such huge settlements. 
“The very least the Health Secretary must do is immediately ensure each and every woman treated with a mesh implant is checked and informed exactly which implant they have.
“This investigation has turned what was a scandal into a crisis, one which the Scottish Government must take action on to protect both patients and the future of our NHS.
 “Case after case in the US has shown the steps manufacturers took to cover up the truth. 
“They’ve not only devastated lives, they have left the NHS facing huge medical bills to treat victims as well as leaving it wide open to costly legal actions likely to carry on for decades to come.”
 

 Scottish Conservative health spokesman Jackson Carlaw said: “Health boards must now actively seek out women who have had mesh devices fitted to establish their true state of health. 
“There was widespread concern when it transpired that many health boards had ignored the Scottish Government’s call for a moratorium on the fitting of mesh devices.
“It is now even more concerning to discover the huge compensation consequences emerging in the US as a result of the horrendous life experience of many women who have endured complications.”
Scottish Mesh Survivor spokeswoman Olive McIlroy, 57, from Renfrew, said: “This has confirmed our worst nightmares.”
Barba’s lawyer Fidelma Fitzpatrick, of US firm Motley Rice, said the decision taken in the state of Delaware gave a fresh voice to victims across the world.
She added: “The jury awarded $75million of Debbie’s claim in punitive damages, which reflects their anger over evidence we presented concerning fraudulent concealment.
“Boston Scientific hid what they knew about the dangers of their product.
“How many times must manufacturers be told they’re wrong before they take responsibility.”
 

 Fitzpatrick will present evidence at the powerful International Urogynecological Association conference in Nice  next week. 
The use of the devices was recorded before former Health Secretary Alex Neil suspended mesh procedures in Scotland a year ago following a campaign led by the Sunday Mail.
As well as the two devices at the centre of the Delaware award, other products found faulty in the US have been used here.
 Hospitals in Glasgow, Fife and Tayside used the Obtryx device, also made by Boston Scientific. Hospitals in Lothian, Lanarkshire, Grampian, Fife, Tayside and Glasgow used Johnson &amp; Johnson’s Ethicon devices, including Prolift, TVT and TVT-O. 
Prolift victim Linda Gross, 48, of South Dakota, was awarded a total of $11.1million in 2013, including $5million punitive damages. Johnson &amp; Johnson, who face hundreds of cases, will appeal.
More than 400 Scottish women are taking legal action against the NHS and manufacturers over mesh devices.
 A Scottish Government spokeswoman said they will await the results of an independent review into mesh implant safety. 
She said:“This review will report in summer and will allow a thorough assessment of the evidence.
“It will provide a firm evidence base for any further action the Scottish Government may take.”

