DAVID O'HARA paid faithfully into a whole of life insurance policy for 20 years.
The plan released &pound;95,245 if he died or was diagnosed with a critical illness.
But Zurich have just slashed the lump sum by &pound;60,000 and increased his monthly premiums.
Taxi driver David, 54, said: “I am outraged. I feel like ripping the whole thing up.”
He took out the policy in May 1995 along with a mortgage so he would have peace of mind should the worst happen.
The life cover backed by a unit-linked investment fund was to benefit his then partner Yvonne McNair, 51, and their children Mary Jane, now 23, and Danielle, 18.
At the time his premiums were &pound;25.59 a month but most recently he has been paying &pound;79.09.
 David, of Clarkston, Glasgow, said: “I knew the policy was index-linked and it would be reviewed. But I wanted to know I had cover so I paid it on time for 240 months.” 
He was horrified to receive a letter from Zurich a month ago. He said: “They were basically giving me an ultimatum. I had to decide whether to continue paying or cancel the policy by May 25.”
Zurich said the cover would reduce to &pound;35,922 and his payment would increase to &pound;81.64. Or if he wanted to continue with a higher benefit of &pound;97,531, his monthly premiums would increase to &pound;134.22.
David contacted his accountant, went to the CAB and called me in.
He said: “I feel like cancelling but I’d be throwing away &pound;35,000 in contributions as I took a similar policy out for Yvonne.
“I’m damned if I do and damned if I don’t. Please help.”
I got on to Zurich but they insisted they had acted within the terms of the policy.
They added: “The plan is designed to provide a high level of cover in the early years.
“After the first 10 years, it is reviewed. The increase in premium is likely to be significant to reflect the higher risk of claiming.
“At the 20-year point, we review it again. Any increases to the sum assured are not subject to further assessment of the customer’s health.”
I discovered the Ombudsman received 2107 complaints about “whole of life” policies last year. So David is taking his case to them.

