AN overtime revolt by drivers left Scotland’s biggest city short of dozens of ambulances last weekend.
 Cover in Glasgow is understood to have been around 30 vehicles below the level deemed necessary. 
Whistleblowers say morale is at an all-time low, with bosses finding it increasingly difficult to find staff to do overtime.
The service said it was left exposed last weekend following a bout of staff sickness.
But insiders say the problem lay with already-stretched staff refusing to provide overtime cover.
Problems over staff breaks and general stress levels are understood to lie at the root of the problem.
One whistleblower, who asked not to be named, said: “People are turning down overtime as those who do take it are then put under such stress.
“People are being phoned at home even if they’ve not put themselves forward as there is such a shortage.
“Those who usually do overtime are turning it down as they feel crews are getting treated badly.
“Last weekend, many crews in Glasgow weren’t getting dinner breaks until eight or nine hours into the shift.
“People are sick of it. Other drivers, such as HGV ones, have mandatory breaks but ambulance drivers are working eight or nine hours without a break.
“It’s one emergency after another so staff just go and cover it and that way the problem never gets fixed.
“You have staff driving to emergencies and administering drugs while they are tired and weary.
“It’s the reason people don’t want overtime – they are getting flogged when they are in. Even donkeys on Blackpool beach get a guaranteed break.”
A senior source in the ambulance service said: “Cover was down last weekend – it was down three, four and, at times, five ambulances per shift.
 “If you add that up over three shifts for Friday, Saturday and Sunday, it comes to perhaps 30 ambulances short. 
“Cover was down due to sickness, absence and call-offs. But everyone did their job and covered the city. Staff are working harder than before – the service are aware of this.”
 

 We told in April how Scots ambulance crews took more than 50,000 hours off work due to stress last year. 
 This equates to the loss of more than 4200 12-hour shifts or more than 6300 eight-hour shifts over  the year. 
 It works out at the equivalent of two days off for stress for every frontline member of staff in Scotland. A total of 2468  paramedics and technicians were employed by the Scottish Ambulance Service at the end of last year. They work a mix of eight, 10 and 12-hour shifts. 
Davie Forbes, Unison regional organiser, said: “We are aware of staff going eight or nine hours before they get a break.
 “We understand no one can predict when call-outs and emergencies will happen but staff missing breaks is happening  more often than it should. 
“We need more resources. Working for the ambulance service can be highly stressful. So where people aren’t getting sufficient breaks or rest, it is inevitable that stress is going to tip over. The higher the pressure is, the more likely people are to be off sick.
“We know the service are attempting to address issues such as staff getting proper breaks. Unless it is done quickly and they put in the resources needed, these problems will persist.”
The Scottish Ambulance Service said: “Crews are working harder than ever to respond to sustained increases in 999 demand.
“It is normal practice, agreed with trade unions, to contact off-duty staff to offer them extra shifts to cover absence or late call-off through sickness.
“Last weekend saw unusually high sickness absence in Glasgow and local teams made every effort to cover shifts.
“The service operate a rest break policy, agreed in partnership with staff representatives, that ensures patient safety while at the same time recognising staff welfare needs for a break during their shift.
“However, this can be affected by unforeseen periods of intense emergency demand.”
 The Scottish Government said: “We are committed to ensuring all communities receive high-quality emergency services. 
“That’s why the Scottish Ambulance Service received resource increases in 2014-15 and 2015-16, which have allowed additional staff to be recruited and trained.”

