THE family of a man who died in custody have launched a furious attack on Police Scotland, accusing them of a “cover-up”.
 Sierra Leonean Sheku Bayoh, a 31-year-old gas engineer who has lived in Fife for 14 years, died of suspected asphyxia as officers restrained him on a pavement in Hayfield Road, Kirkcaldy on May 3. 
It is understood nine officers were involved in the incident involving pepper and pava spray, handcuffs, leg restraints and batons to subdue the father-of-two.
Bayoh’s elder sister Kosna, 40, said: “We find this all ridiculous really. We were thinking that in any normal circumstances something like this happens, people are investigated, people are suspended, but that has never happened.
“All we want is the truth. We want to know what exactly happened and we want justice.
“We trust in the police, they are there to look after us, they are there to protect us, but if you are telling us different stories, I call that lies.
“They have looked at us in the face and they have lied to us, which really hurts, and upsets us.
“It really is a big disgrace. It sounds like a cover up.”

Bayoh’s mother Aminita, 65, who is in Kirkcaldy for her son’s funeral today, added: “I won’t ever forget this. He was my only boy.
“The police know what has happened. Everyone is angry, his friends, his relations they are all not happy. Almost a month and nobody has talked the truth.”
Hundreds of people are expected to see Bayoh - known as Shek - laid to rest today at Dysart Muslim Cemetery after stopping at Kirkcaldy Police Station for a two minute silence during the funeral procession from Hayfield Road to the Kirkcaldy Islamic Centre.
Bayoh’s brother-in-law Ade Johnson, 38, raised concerned that Scotland’s police complaints body PIRC do not have enough power to compel serving police officers to attend witness interviews.
He said: “PIRC is supposed to do the same work as the IPCC in England so why don’t they have the same powers. We need to look at that not just for us, but for the whole of Scotland.
“In Scotland we have been really complacent, we believe that things like this don’t happen in Scotland. But things like what has happened, is a wake up call for us.
“Are we going to say, ‘not in my name, not under a Scottish flag’, are we going to come together and say, look, we have to put a stop to it as citizens and members of Scotland.
“Shek loved the community and the community loved Shek. He was proud of Scotland, he goes to London, he preaches about Scotland.
“That’s the Scotland we want to remember, we don’t want to remember the Scotland of the Third of May and what happened after.
“But there are still some small elements in the community that we need to weed out so that we can keep the Scottish flag flying.”
 

Last week Bayoh’s devastated partner vowed to continue her fight for justice after his funeral.
 Collette Bell told the Daily Record that his death has left her “counting down the days” until she can see him again in the afterlife . 
But the 27-year-old, who is the mother of Bayoh’s baby son Isaac, said she won’t rest until she knows the truth.

