THE LaFontaines are about to show their class with a stunning debut album that perfectly sums up the genre-defying band’s eclectic magnificence.
The album, released tomorrow, will cement their reputation as one of the most exciting bands in music right now, their melding of styles as diverse as hip hop, drum and bass, pop, rock and indie somehow creating not the expected ungodly racket, but a uniquely exhilarating sound.
They’ve always been widely regarded as Scotland’s best live act, but this album sees them capture that in the studio for the first time - it’s no wonder they’re excited.
Rapper and lyricist Kerr Okan - who exclusively takes us through the record track by track above - told us: “We are very excited about the record.
“It is the perfect expression of the way the LaFontaines are now. The best representation of the band.
“I just want people to hear it. I want people to realise what we have been doing and building, give it a chance.
“I think people will be pleasantly surprised by this record. It is uncompromising, it is us.
“We have never had a blueprint, we are first through the door with this music so it takes time to build.
“We had to figure where we fit in the scheme of things and Class is a great representation fof a band who have found their sound and what it is, where they belong and what they want to do.
“We have been down so many avenues with labels wanting us to be one way, act or sound a different way, and we haven’t gone there.
“We are setting up our own label and being our own entity so we can say this is what we do, you can like it or you can f**k off.
“You can’t change yourself or try to please people. we do our thing whoever is in front of us.”
The band - Kerr, John Gerard, Daz McCaughey, Jamie Keenan and Iain Findlay - are currently on their debut UK headline tour after years of ever-bigger supports.
And they’re throwing a special album release party tomorrow night in Glasgow - with free admission for the first 300 fans who show up having bought the album.
“We want to have a little celebration so we are doing a one off show at Stereo. It’ll be 300 people in , rammed, everyone who comes has to show purchase proof of the album.
“Free entry, proper big party night. Doors at 7.30, first come first served.
“We always wanted to be in Glasgow that night. Plus our first ever proper Glasgow headline show was in Stereo three years ago. It will be special.”
As will playing the main stage at T in the Park next month, an incredible honour for an unsigned band - but one that is fully deserved. And expect them to take full advantage by winning an army of new fans.
 

“I am so excited about that. We are ecstatic. Can’t wait. It’s a huge compliment.
“It’s vindication and a sign everything is going the right direction. It feels like we can’t be ignored any more.
“We will embrace that chance with open arms, no one is going to watch the show and think we don’t belong on that stage, and we have the chance to show what e do to so many different people who would never see us.”
This band are out to go all the way - so they were thrilled and inspired to see close friends and frequent touring partners Twin Atlantic headline the SSE Hydro last month.
Kerr said: “Watching Twin do the Hydro, knowing them so well, having been with them at the Barras, in Manchester playing to 40 people toegther, them playing the Hydro arena... it was like amazing, so pleased and poroud of our mates.
“A local Scottish band, it’s phenomenal. It also gives me confidence.
“I know the moves required to make it happen, the people involved and what needs to take place, and it’s only a few steps.
“That’s not downplaying what they have done, I just mean a few steps need to happen to get you to that stage.
“Twin doing it, as they’re so close to us as a band and as people, fills us with so much confidence that it is achievable, it’s not an unrealistic dream.
“It is totally inspiring for us to see them play the Hydro.
“Even though Sam stole my move of making everyone sit down then jump up again - I pulled him up for it backstage too but he just laughed.
“Fair enough, I stole it off Mike Skinner when I went to a Streets gig, but still.”
Class by The LaFontaines is released tomorrow on 889 RECORDS
Slow Elvis
The instrumental came together pretty quickly. I remember we wrote it in a pokey wee studio in Bellshill while our old tour bus was in getting fixed. I remember it instantly making me feel quite belligerent. The rhythm and progression of the song felt like a militant march to me. I knew I wanted to write something quite aggressive on it.
I remember writing the lyric the day after we were taken to this industry party down in London. It was full of the music industry “game changers” telling us what they could do for us if we changed certain aspects of what we do, how huge we could be if conformed just a little, dressed in a certain way ,so they could help try fit us in a genre that works for the big bull***t machine. Slow Elvis is my f*** you to that whole scene. Like the last line says, “I’d rather bow out with no deal, than be first in line for a free meal”.
Slow Elvis sets the tone for the full record.
Under The Storm
John wrote the hook and brought it to us. There was no music at this point, he just had the lyric and melody – which were really strong. Daz tried to build music round it but the direction he took it for once didn’t really fit. It felt quite pop punk.
When we got in the studio together, though, it all came together. We felt the melody was so strong that we should just strip everything back and let it breathe. From there it came together pretty quickly. The whoop whoop and storm noises were added later in post -production. I also paid &pound;3 to use a marching sample for the second verse to tie up with a lyric.
Lyrically, I wrote this around Christmas time in my wee flat which I shared with John. I remember it been freezing, our heating being off, John being in a mildly warm bath eating cold rice pudding from the tin. I remember just feeling really grim. That kind of moment you get now and then while doing this where you think, “Are we just wasting our time here?” Most of our peers have what seems like good careers, buying flats, going on holidays and you’re sitting trying to write songs with about six layers on to keep warm. But the feeling leaves you as soon as you hit the stage.
Class
The title track from the album. This is one where the lyric actually came before the music. Daz and I got together with the boys from Fatherson to do a Frank Ocean cover of Super Rich Kids. I wrote my own lyric to the song – a subject I have no problem ripping into.
The song went down so well online and the lyric was received so well that I felt it deserved a bigger platform. Throughout the writing there are A LOT of times I touch on the subject of class. Like the song says, “These super rich kids with their fast track pass, we went to the same school, never in the same class”.
In regards to the music. Daz pretty much brought this one to the table. It’s a song that had sat around for a while. We could just never get the verses to sound right. It didn’t groove properly. There had been three different sets of lyrics to this song. Originally it wasn’t going to make the record until we properly demoed it. After that it just came together. It reminds me of a U2 record for some reason. Shouts to Bono and the boys. It felt right to go with that as the title track for the album. We also on the other hand just thought we had a class record on our hands.
Castles
Parts of this had been sitting around for ages. We got the verses down for it years ago but the chorus never felt right. We joined up three other songs to try to make it work but nothing felt as big and anthemic as what we eventually settled on. It’s the type of song we’ve never really done before with such a huge stadium-like chorus. John came to the studio I worked at and we put him in the booth and tried various melodies until something stuck. But it never really took shape until we went to record with Matty O’Grady, our producer. It’s the only song on the record we needed a helping hand on. He helped us resolve the melody. Just a little help, but it made such a huge difference.
Lyrically this is actually part two of a story I created about a set of fictional characters within the record. It’s based on a relationship I know of where someone is overly paranoid about what their other half is getting up to. They actually create these scenarios in their head. On Castles our character is still finding it hard to let go of their paranoia but something’s about to change. It’s all about finding some peace within themselves.
King
King was created during one of the many nights Daz and I get together and produce music. The funny thing about this song is that we originally had no guitar to record with it with. All we had was an old Cash Generators-type guitar I stole many moons ago for my papa to practice on. We plugged it in, fired it through a wah-wah pedal, turned up the gain, added a bit of distortion and it sounded amazing. So much so that when we went to record it ,Matty wouldn’t let us change it. He said we’d never be able to create that tone again. The rest of the song is just a groove. It’s all about the riff.
Lyrically, King was written as talk of the referendum began. I don’t think that holds any real significance other than it was on my mind. I think that’s maybe where the opening bars come from: “F*** your popularity, speaking with total clarity, the only thing that matters is peace and solidarity, I’ve been on a quest to define my personality, proud of where I’m from but I hold no nationality”.
The rest of the song continues in the same vein. I jump in and out of tales from my childhood, things that have played a pivotal part on how I’ve turned out. As the song states “Living life with no regrets” , and basically being the King of your own home. That can mean many things but to me it’s about being happy within yourself.
Another nice part of the story behind this song is we got to work with collectively our favourite band. I remember being asked about our band’s bucket list, and doing a song with Canterbury was right up there. Ask any touring band in Britain about the music industry’s biggest mistake, and they’ll tell you it’s the fact that Canterbury never “made it”.
Junior Dragon
The initial idea for this lay around longer than any other. It originally wasn’t going to make the record. We’d tried to make it work for over three years but nothing stuck. The last night before we left to record in Woking we had a practice, and Jamie made reference to a recurring joke we had about writing a drinking song. The joke stems back to when we had American management for six months and their ludicrous suggestions. Anyway, for some reason after that comment was made we looked at the song completely differently. The music seemed like the perfect soundtrack to a wild night out. Suddenly it all clicked. We re-worked the intro and verses and there we had it.
Lyrically the concept was already there. We wanted a drinking song and there were plenty of experiences to pull from. The title comes from our days sponsored by Dragon Soop – hence Junior Dragon.
All Gone
All gone is the prequel to Castles. Part one of a story I created about the set of fictional characters. It’s based on that relationship where someone is overly paranoid about what their other half gets up to. In the end it completely destroys what good there was there and it leaves one character in a pretty dark place.
The song is a slow-burner but by the end you’ve got a character who’s so lost in their thoughts that they can’t see light at the end of the tunnel. It sets the scene nicely for part two. Originally I wanted to have All Gone running into Castles but when we listened back to the album it just didn’t flow right. This way you have to pay close attention to the lyrical content to grasp the story and I’m not too precious to have the songs played around with if it’s for the overall benefit of the record.
Window Seat
This was written on the flight over to New York. We were going for Scotland Week to play a run of shows. We had just written the music the previous day. John had this amazing melody, really haunting at times, but originally planned to take it in another direction. I remember hearing it – just chords on an organ at the time, and thinking it had so much more to give as a song. It could become a story. We got the music together quickly after toying with the idea of various time signatures.
John and I were sitting next to each other on the flight to NY. Suddenly Window Seat came about, perhaps because of the plane but I took it with many connotations. The song in the end is entirely about our time working for a British Gas call centre. Far less exciting than going to New York. But there’s something in that, we had to travel there to bring us back to a customer care centre in Bellshill
All She Knows
All She Knows is about change. It came at a real tough time for the band. We were going through a horrible situation with management and didn’t know if we were coming or going. We were in this limbo period where nothing was happening.
Darren had this beautiful picky guitar piece which you now know as the chorus but at the time it was just a piece of music. As soft and as airy as it was, I felt it the perfect canvas to lay all this pent-up frustration and anger we had as a band. It’s all of that basically disguised in the form of a love song. As soon as got that off our chest, it just seemed like that was what we needed to pick the ball back up, make a change and get on with it. We’ve never looked back ever since.
Paper Chase
Paper Chase for us is the track that had to go on the record, there was no question about it because of what it means to us as a band. It was the first single we ever independently put out, it was only right that it made our debut record. This time, though, we wanted to do it right.
We were never entirely happy with how the first version sounded, it felt too polished. We took the opportunity to completely re-record it. I remember Matty saying: “This is your anthem” as soon as we laid the chorus vocal on it. It’s the one we’re most scared of letting people hear. I know the attachment fans have to the original version but I think as soon as they hear it, they’ll realise it’s got more life and Fonts soul about it now.
Pull Me Back
Pull me back is probably the most honest song on the album. In every respect. It’s so bare in terms of production. Daz on the piano, Findlay playing a menacing guitar part and Jamie playing really no more than a rhythm on the rims and toms. It’s all about the space the song’s allowed to have. We always wanted to have a piano at some point, just something to change the dynamic a bit, slow the pace a little and let the words do the talking. Lyrically it’s about me being my biggest enemy at times. My own harshest critic. About getting out of my own head and not being afraid to make a mistake. I feel we let all that go on this record which is why it’s the last song, but just the beginning.
The band play Stereo tomorrow night, first come first served, doors 7.30pm and admission free with album proof of purchase.

