FIVE people were injured after a giant inflatable slide was blown 150 yards across a park yesterday.
Families had to dive for cover as a gust of wind brought terror to a gala day.
Six-year-old Summer Wroniecki was among four children injured.
It is believed Summer – who survived muscle cancer – broke a bone near where she had a plate inserted. She was taken to Edinburgh’s Sick Kids hospital.
Her dad Chris wrote on Facebook: “Heading over to the Sick Kids as Summer has broken her bone where her plate is. Can’t believe this.”
Summer won our sister paper the Daily Record’s Our Little Hero award in 2012.
Three other children were injured and were treated by paramedics at the scene. A man was taken to hospital with a wrist injury.
Police and the Health and Safety Executive were last night probing the incident.
Witnesses said the slide took off in high winds at Cupar Children’s Gala in the Fife town’s Duffus Park at about 2.15pm.
Mum-of-two Lindsey Alexander, 39, of Cupar, said: “It was very, very windy.
“I was there with my children Fergus and Anna and a friend’s daughter Phoebe. They had just been on the slide – they were standing at the bottom of it when it just lifted up.
“The man who had been taking the money fell on top of my son and the inflatable took off across the park towards the fairground rides, where it knocked a young girl into one of the rides.
“It went on across the park. People were running out of the way but it hit another couple of people. They were attended to by emergency services later. They were lying with neck braces.
“The inflatable went right across the park and snapped a large branch off a tree. Once it hit the tree, it deflated.” A police spokeswoman said: “Officers attended an incident in Cupar after one adult and four children, the youngest aged six, were injured.
“Most of the injuries are minor. One child and the adult have been taken to hospital for further tests. Inquiries are ongoing.”
Organisers cancelled the rest of the gala.
They said last night: “We would like to thank all those who helped and supported the community this afternoon.
“Every safety precaution was risk assessed and fulfilled by the committee and service providers prior to the gala commencing and during the event.
“Unfortunately, due to adverse weather conditions outwith our control, an emergency situation did occur.”

