SCOTLAND'S busiest McDonald’s restaurant has started piping in classical music to calm customers down.
 The fast-food branch in Glasgow’s Argyle Street opens late and already employs stewards after police were called to 200 incidents in 14 months. 
Now bosses have drafted in Beethoven, Bach and Handel to try to tackle unruly behaviour.
The fast-food giant said they had introduced the music as it “encourages calm behaviour”.
A mixture of compositions is being used, ranging from full orchestral to solo piano pieces.
 One customer of the branch – which is on one of the country’s busiest junctions – said: “I’ve been a regular at this McDonald’s for years and it has always been quite lively. 
“In the past few years, things seemed to have just got out of hand a little. It’s often more about the large numbers of people hanging about outside rather than those inside.
“But you see some sights there – and late at night it goes to another level.
“We heard classical music being played the other night and it was actually quite pleasant.
“It’s better than the kind of rave music we’ve heard before so I think they may be on to something.”
 

The restaurant opens from 5am to 3am from Sunday to Thursday and until 4am on Fridays and Saturdays.
 It was reported in February that Police Scotland complained to council bosses over the outlet, claiming it was a drain on resources and that they had to regularly patrol the area after recording hundreds of incidents in the previous year. 
McDonald’s were ordered to employ stewards at the branch last June and there has been a huge drop in crime-related incidents on the premises since. The company appealed the decision in February but it was upheld.
The council ruled the branch must employ four security staff on Friday and Saturday nights and one each day between Sunday and Thursday.
Police regularly patrol the area – at a junction in Glasgow city centre known as the “four corners”. Two officers on horseback were spotted outside the restaurant on Wednesday.
Chief Inspector Mark Sutherland, Police Scotland’s Glasgow city centre commander, said: “The areas of Jamaica Street, Argyle Street and Union Street are extremely busy.
“Officers will continue to provide a high-visibility police presence in the area in order to reduce crime, disorder and anti-social behaviour.”
McDonald’s branches have successfully used classical music to calm rowdy patrons before.
A branch in Stockport, Greater Manchester, used the tactic two years ago following a spate of yobbish behaviour.
McDonald’s said: “Based on the advice of our security team, classical music is used by some restaurants as it encourages calm behaviour.
“Typically, classical music is used from early evening onwards.”
 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

