PORRIDGE will be on the menu at Scotland’s new super hospital after disappointed patients called in the Sunday Mail.
Bosses at the &pound;840million hospital had left oat cuisine off the breakfast choice, provoking a backlash on the wards.
 The traditional breakfast favourite – which scientists say helps us live longer – was snubbed by bosses at the new Southern General hospital in Glasgow. Instead, patients were offered sugar-based cereals and toast every morning. 
But after we revealed patients’ disappointment, the South Glasgow University Hospital – which opened in April – have promised to change the menu within weeks.
One patient, who was denied porridge during a four-day stay in the hospital last week, said: “I think it’s a scandal that a new hospital doesn’t offer patients porridge. It’s always been available at other hospitals.
“The Government try to encourage people to live healthily and cut out sugar.
“Why spend millions on a new hospital but not offer one of the most obvious things that should be included in a healthy diet?”
 

Boston’s Harvard University published a study earlier this year which claimed a bowl of porridge each day could be the key to a long and healthy life.
Their research claimed that whole grains reduce the risk of heart disease and major chronic diseases such as type 2 diabetes.
Scientists tracked 110,000 people for more than 14 years and monitored their diets. Everyone involved in the study was healthy when they enrolled but more than 26,000 had died by the end of the research in 2010.
Scientists found that for each ounce (28g) of whole grains eaten a day – the equivalent of a small bowl of porridge – the risk of death was reduced by five per cent, including a nine per cent reduction in the risk of a heart attack.
 Jenny Marra, Scottish Labour’s health spokeswoman, said: “Porridge is the healthiest and cheapest breakfast. 
“For those two reasons, everyone would expect it to be the standard breakfast option across every hospital in Scotland. Or maybe spurtles just haven’t made their way into the new hi-tech building yet.”
An NHSGGC spokesman yesterday said they planned to add porridge to the menu within three weeks.
He added: “We offer four breakfast cereal options at the SGUH and, in response to patient feedback, we will be adding porridge to the list of options later this month.”
The new Southern General, which took four years to build, has 1109 beds over 14 floors and replaces other adult hospitals in Glasgow.
 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

