THOUSANDS of tons of fresh food are being binned by Scottish supermarkets despite pledges to give leftovers to charity.
A Sunday Mail investigation found some of Britain’s biggest stores throwing away huge amounts of edible “in date” food.
The appalling waste can be revealed as supermarkets come under pressure to end the practice and work with charities to ensure the food helps the hungry.
 And we can reveal the Scottish Government are scrutinising new policies in France that outlaw the dumping of food. Some supermarkets have already said they will do more to tackle the problem. 
 Tesco chief executive Dave Lewis says he hopes to eliminate the need to throw away food from his shops, which binned 55,400 tons last year. 
But FareShare, a charity who redistribute supermarket surpluses, say they only receive two per cent of unwanted products.
Chief executive Lindsay Boswell said: “Increasing the two per cent we work with now is our reason for getting out of bed every morning.
“We want to get to the same stage that France is and, in order to do that, we need to get from two per cent to 25 per cent.
“If we can get to that, it would mean 100,000 tons of food and then we can support between 13,000 and 14,000 charities. We could save UK charities &pound;250million a year.
“That would make surplus food the biggest supporter of the voluntary sector after the lottery.
“The majority of food that’s wasted never even makes it to the supermarket and our estimations are that there is approximately 400,000 tons of food fit for human consumption that goes to waste in the UK from the food industry.
“To put that into context, with just two per cent of that, we feed 250,000 people a week. It’s mindblowing.
“We understand that in order to make sure what you or I want is available when we walk into a supermarket, the shelves must be stocked and the warehouse must be full.
“But the bit that’s completely wrong is if you have surpluses and they are fit for human consumption, you allow them to go to waste.”
Yesterday, Scottish Government ministers vowed to learn lessons from the new legislation in France.
Food Minister Richard Lochhead said: “Scotland is already achieving similar outcomes to the French approach. Through our waste regulations and the Courtauld Agreement, supermarket food waste in Scotland is already diverted from landfill towards redistribution or recycling.
“We will, however, look closely at the French initiative to see what can be learned from it.
“As part of our &pound;1million Emergency Food Action Plan, we are supporting FareShare to redistribute food from the food industry to community organisations.
 “With as much as half of all food waste arising in the home, the Scottish Government also run food waste  prevention campaigns to help householders save money and reduce waste.” 
 

 During our investigation, we saw staff from Tesco in Linlithgow, West Lothian, discard still-fresh food,including bags of Walkers Deli Crisps. 
And a Waitrose store we visited binned more than &pound;50 worth of goods in one night – including a luxury cake, breaded haddock and organic pasta.
Politicians and frontline staff dealing with food shortages throughout the country have called for a change in the law similar to the bill the French have brought in. Julie Webster, who runs Greater Maryhill Foodbank, describes dumping of food as “soul-destroying”.
 She plans to join forces with Green MSP Patrick Harvie and coordinators from Drumchapel Foodbank and Crookston Foodbank to tell ministers that introducing similar legislation is the only way for them to survive. 
She said: “The Scottish Government have a moral obligation to look at the amount of food being wasted and how it can be put to use.
“Supermarkets throw away perfectly good fruit and vegetables, which is something at the foodbank we are so short of. When I give a service user a bunch of bananas or a bag of potatoes, they look like they have won the lottery because they want to feed their kids healthy food but it’s too expensive.
“So to hear that this type of thing is being thrown out when it’s still perfectly edible really sticks in your throat.”
According to Waste and Resources Action Programme, 15billion tons of food was wasted in the UK in 2013.
The British Retail Consortium say the industry, including supermarkets, are responsible for 1.3 per cent of all food wasted. In Scotland, more than two million tons of food waste is produced every year from all sectors.
 Stuart McMillan, SNP MSP for West of Scotland, has already written to the Food Minister, saying the amount of food thrown away by supermarkets is “scandalous”. 
Yesterday, he said: “I watched the legislation in France with interest and I believe introducing such a law in Scotland would be a massive step in helping cut down on wastage.”
Zero Waste Scotland said: “There’s clearly an opportunity for businesses that have surplus food to help address food poverty while reducing their impact on the environment.”
MSP Harvie said: “It’s unacceptable big retailers are throwing away good food. Let’s divert it to those who need it.”
Waitrose said: “Since 2012, we’ve been donating surplus food fit for consumption to local causes, while food waste not fit for consumption is sent for anaerobic digestion that creates useful energy.”
Tesco, who have joined FareShare’s FoodCloud scheme to give unsold food to charity, said: “We want as much surplus food as possible to feed people.”
 

A serial “skipper” has told how he hosted extravagant feasts for his friends using luxury food he found in supermarket bins.
Daniel, 36, put on a dinner party spread of roasted leg of lamb with &pound;20-a-bottle red wine after a night of skipping – taking food dumped by supermarkets from their bins – at his local Waitrose.
On another trip, it took him three hours and 15 bags to take food dumped by the store back to his flat. It included fruit and veg, sandwiches, pizzas, bread, crisps and eggs.
Unemployed Daniel has been skipping for 10 years and says he eats a better and more varied diet because of it.
He took the Sunday Mail on a skipping expedition last week – coming back with a haul worth more than &pound;50.
We watched as he pulled organic pasta, Italian olives, breaded haddock, butter croissants, eggs, fine green beans and even a luxury Fiona Cairns wedding cake from the skip.
Shockingly, Daniel didn’t consider the huge bagful of food – which also included Loyd Grossman pasta sauce, fresh herbs and a harissa chicken and tabbouleh salad – as one of his better hauls.
He said: “Literally half the food in the world goes uneaten. We have enough food to feed 14billion people and we don’t. It’s absurd and obscene and it needs to stop.
“The amount of food that supermarkets throw out is incredible. The ones I go to are medium-sized stores and they get rid of a lot.
“But I’ve been to huge supermarkets on the periphery of cities and what they throw out is just unbelievable. Every night there is just skip after skip full of food.”
Daniel started skipping – also known as bin diving – with pals who were on a budget.
He said: “There was much better food and more of it than I imagined. And it was much easier and much cleaner than I thought.”
On Daniel’s most recent skipping expedition, he came away with a huge amount of lamb chops – worth &pound;40.
The meat was not past its sell-by date or spoiled in any way and he invited friends round to help him eat it.
But his best finds include things he would never dream of buying for himself.
He said: “I’ve skipped a &pound;20 bottle of French red wine. The cork had broken off in the bottle.
“It was still fine but I guess they couldn’t sell it.
“I had a good haul from Scotmid a couple of years ago – 15 bags of food and it took me three hours to get them all back to the flat.
“One time at Scotmid their fridges broke and a couple of friends got enough cheese to fill their bathtub. Another time, the Waitrose freezers failed and their bins were packed with Ben &amp; Jerry’s.”
Daniel says he has a much better diet than if he had to go shopping. He said: “I eat much better food when I have been skipping.
“If I don’t have access to a skip and I have to buy food from a supermarket, it’s just what I can afford and it’s boring. But going to the skip is like Christmas every time.”
Daniel says some stores “go to great lengths to make sure nobody gets access to the food” by putting cages around their skips.
But when he can skip and has excess food, he offers it to people who need it using online sharing groups. He added: “You can always find a home for food you skipped.”
 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

