 ALEX SALMOND: 
TORIES selling Scotland down the river is not a news story.
Tories NOT selling Scotland out. Now that would be a news story.
On that basis, the new Scottish Devolution Bill – debated in the House of Commons today – should not make any headlines. However, it has two big points of interest.
  Read the rest of Alex Salmond's opinion here.  
 IAIN GRAY: 
IT'S the sunshine I can remember, and the singing of A Man’s a Man.
Not just the weather but the sense of optimism, unity and purpose back in July 1999 when the new Scottish  Parliament was formally opened.
What a day. What an exciting time for Scotland and the whole of the UK.
  Read the rest of Iain Gray's opinion here.  
 JOHN SWINNEY: 
 DELIVERING the Smith Commission recommendations was the minimum the UK Government had to deliver – and they have failed miserably. 
  Read the rest of John Swinney's opinion here.  
  

 ADAM TOMKINS: 
SCOTTISH devolution is finally about to come of age.
Our adolescent politics of grievance is at last to mature into grown-up responsibility.
 This is what the Smith Commission promised and it’s what the new Scotland Bill delivers. 
  Read the rest of Adam Tomkins opinion here.  
 TAVISH SCOTT: 
NEW powers will matter to people across Scotland.
 Holyrood will have new things to do – the power to set your rate of income tax, to make changes to benefits that are needed to fit Scottish circumstances and to make our governments work for you. 
  Read the rest of Tavish Scott's opinion here.  
 PATRICK HARVIE: 
THEY say if you like laws and sausages, you should never watch either one being made.
Well, hold on to your breakfast. This week, we’ll see attempts to burst open the Scotland Bill so it can be fattened with amendments.
  Read the rest of Patrick Harvie's opinion here.  
 RECORD VIEW 
  

THE date on the Daily Record front page printed on this page is from November 28, 1975.
That is just a few months short of 40 years ago.
It refers to the ill-fated Scotland and Wales Bill that withered and died because of a lack of will at Westminster to deliver devolved Scottish and Welsh assemblies.
  Read the rest of Record View here.  

