More than 2.1 million people experienced cultural events linked to Glasgow 2014
The cultural programme was a National Lottery-funded partnership between Glasgow 2014’s organising committee, Glasgow Life and Creative Scotland
Result of culture programme ‘set in motion new ideas, new partnerships and renewed confidence for Scotland’s bright, brilliant artistic future’
MORE than 2.1 million people throughout Scotland experienced cultural events linked to last year’s Commonwealth Games, according to new research.
The study found that the cultural programme for the Glasgow Games included more than 12,000 events, with 3,000-plus performances and 3,600 exhibition days.
A total of 8,000 artists were supported to produce and present work with 600,000 people taking part in performances and events.
The report said: “Drawing on a range of sources, it can be concluded that the Glasgow 2014 cultural programme constituted a bold and innovative initiative, producing some work of real artistic excellence, while offering a mix of cultural experiences that felt fresh and exciting to peers and audiences alike.” 
The evaluation was carried out by research organisations BOP Consulting and Counting what Counts based on feedback from artists, audiences and organisations that took part.
The cultural programme was a partnership between the Glasgow 2014 organising committee, Glasgow Life and Creative Scotland, with National Lottery funding.
Janet Archer, chief executive of Creative Scotland, said: “The artistic community of Scotland responded to the call to create the most ambitious programme of cultural activity this country has ever seen with breath-taking energy, imagination and skill.
“They reached out to people and communities throughout Scotland to make the absolute most of the once in a lifetime opportunity presented by Glasgow and Scotland’s hosting of the Commonwealth Games.
“The result was an inclusive, multi-faceted programme pulsing with artistic excellence, innovation and quality that has set in motion new ideas, new partnerships, and renewed confidence for Scotland’s bright, brilliant artistic future.”
Culture Secretary Fiona Hyslop added: “The Glasgow 2014 cultural programme was the most ambitious nationwide cultural celebration that has ever taken place in Scotland, bringing a national programme of new work by world-leading and emerging Scottish and International artists to communities across the country, as today’s findings show.
“The Scottish Government is committed to securing a legacy for communities across Scotland from hosting the 2014 Commonwealth Games, and the cultural programme has offered an excellent platform to strengthen connections both here at home and internationally, through culture and learning, enhancing our reputation as a vibrant and culturally-rich nation.”
