 DELIVERING the Smith Commission recommendations was the minimum the UK Government had to deliver – and they have failed miserably. 
Backed by all parties in the Scottish Parliament, the report proposed new, limited powers for Holyrood in areas such as  welfare, employment support and income tax.
Published 10 days ago, the Scotland Bill serves Scotland badly and falls well short of fully implementing the Smith proposals.
With our existing powers, we have demonstrated we can make a difference for hard-pressed families – through boosting childcare, freezing the council tax, encouraging more employers to pay the living wage and spending more than &pound;100million a year just to mitigate UK welfare cuts.
With new powers, we can make even more of a difference by using additional economic and welfare policies to protect vulnerable households but also to create jobs, boost investment and grow the economy.
Yet the Scotland Bill badly lets Scotland down.
 It restricts who the Scottish Government would be able to pay certain benefits to. 
It fails to devolve the full range of employment support services currently delivered by the Department for Work and Pensions.
It contains no powers to create new benefits in devolved areas, if we wanted to, having considered how new welfare powers will complement existing devolved services.
It is missing or restricts powers in areas of consumer protection, energy and the Crown Estate.
And if that wasn’t bad  enough, the proposed Bill gives Westminster a veto over  key policies.

That means I or my Scottish Cabinet colleagues would still have to seek the explicit approval of the relevant Secretary of State before implementing new policies – such as scrapping the bedroom tax.
By any definition, that isn’t devolution. That is why the Scotland Bill must be improved.
 And if it is to have any credibility, it must be changed to implement the Smith Commission recommendations in full. Doing so should not be seen as some kind of concession from David Cameron’s Government. 
It would only be delivering what they have already signed up to and already promised the people of Scotland.
This week, the Scotland Bill will be debated at Westminster – and the real work begins to get it into shape. If the Westminster parties are not prepared to honour the promises they made to people of Scotland in the days before the referendum, then SNP MPs will seek to amend the Bill to do just that.
We want to remove the  UK Government’s veto over key decisions, give the Scottish Parliament an explicit power to create new benefits in devolved areas and ensure that the Scottish Parliament cannot be abolished without the consent of the Scottish people.
These basic changes to the Bill will give future Scottish governments the freedom to exercise new powers without interference.
But going forward, we regard what is currently being proposed as the floor – not the ceiling.
That’s why we’ll also put forward proposals shortly for more powers to be devolved through the Scotland Bill including employment policy, the minimum wage, welfare, business taxes, national insurance and equality policy – the powers we need to create jobs, grow revenues and lift people out of poverty.
 ● Finance Secretary John Swinney was an SNP member of the Smith Commission. 

