IT'S the sunshine I can remember, and the singing of A Man’s a Man.
Not just the weather but the sense of optimism, unity and purpose back in July 1999 when the new Scottish  Parliament was formally opened.
What a day. What an exciting time for Scotland and the whole of the UK.
A Labour Government had delivered a new Parliament in Edinburgh. It was a promise made and a promise delivered.
Fifteen years later, I emerged, blinking, from 10 weeks of Smith Commission meetings into a cold November morning. This time the weather was different but another bright new day was in prospect for Scotland
Legislation starting its passage through the House of Commons today will transform our Scottish Parliament into one of the most powerful devolved parliaments in the world.
The Scotland Bill will transfer power over billions of pounds of tax and welfare.
Powers to set income tax rates and bands; to borrow so we can build schools and hospitals, roads and bridges; and to  transform a welfare state that supports those who have fallen on hard times.
What an exciting opportunity we have.
Make no mistake, these new powers coming to Scotland mean we can, and will, do things  differently.
A future Scottish Labour government would use them to ask the wealthiest few to pay a little more in tax.

By increasing the top rate of tax to 50p for those earning more than &pound;150,000 a year we could invest an extra &pound;125million in our schools, to support teachers, employ more classroom  assistants and make sure every one  of our children and grandchildren  leaves school able to read, write and count properly.
We will also insist that the new job creating powers coming to Holyrood don’t just shift from one capital city in London to another capital city in  Edinburgh.
They should be pushed out to communities across Scotland. That way decisions about how best to get people back into work can be made locally and not by a minister sitting behind a desk in St Andrew’s House, applying a “one size fits all” solution.
Don’t let anybody tell you these new powers don’t offer us the opportunity to make life better for families in Scotland.
My hope for this new period in  Scottish public life is that the blame culture disappears. The sense that it’s always someone else’s fault.
With so many decisions about tax and welfare being made here in Scotland,  the days of the SNP pointing the finger  at the people down the road should be gone for good.
The SNP have been the Scottish Government for over eight years now, half of the Scottish Parliament’s  existence. It is time they worked out  how to make our Parliament work for our people. Those of us who campaigned for Scotland to remain in the UK  promised last year that more powers would be on their way. It was our Vow. And we’ve stuck to it.
Now let’s use these powers to deliver the change Scotland needs.
● Iain Gray is Scottish Labour’s  education spokesman and was one of the party’s representatives on the Smith Commission.

