 There are five candidates for the manager's job at Rangers, according to chairman Dave King. 
 And he acknowledged that Stuart McCall, who led the club to play-off final defeat, remains in the running. 
 &quot;There were potential managers who dropped out of the race because we are still in the Championship,&quot; said King. 
 Pledging to spend &quot;whatever it takes&quot; to win promotion next term, King said an announcement on the manager is unlikely to be made this week. 
 McCall, 50, took over from Kenny McDowall on a short-term deal in March, steering Rangers to a third-place finish and the play-off final, where they lost out to his former club Motherwell. 
 Praising McCall's &quot;fantastic attitude&quot;, King stressed that failure to get promoted was &quot;not viewed negatively&quot;. 
 Former Brentford boss Mark Warburton has confirmed that he has spoken to Rangers and would bring former Rangers captain Davie Weir as his assistant, if successful. 
 &quot;With a club like Rangers there are a lot of names that might come forward, but it's important that we balance the obvious need to make an appointment with getting it right,&quot; explained King, who ruled out the possibility of the club immediately introducing a director of football. 
 &quot;We're looking for an appointment to see us through the next three years. 
 &quot;I think it's important that the person has the right level of authority to meet our objectives as a club over the next three seasons.&quot; 
 With 11 out of contract players, including captain Lee McCulloch, having already moved on, the Rangers team is sure to look very different next season. 
 &quot;We will need money now to beef up the squad,&quot; said King, who led a successful boardroom takeover in March. 
 &quot;We need players to be competitive in the Premiership, so there will be substantial investment in next months. It may be necessary to over-invest. 
 &quot;The mandate is to get players who could perform in the Premiership and that would greatly reduce the risk for next season.&quot; 
 McCall, who won six titles in seven seasons at Ibrox as a player in the 1990s, is currently coaching with the Scotland squad ahead of Saturday's Euro 2016 qualifier against the Republic of Ireland. 
