WHEN you’re closer to 30 than you are to 25, most of us would tend to think we’ve exhausted the education system of all the learning we’re going to get in life.
That was my thinking certainly, before I found myself shuffling, groaning and shrieking through the Zombie School recruitment exam.
 The insane zombie street-race game that is 2.8 Hours Later is back in Glasgow this month and to make it as involving and terrifying as possible, company Slingshot recruit most of the flesh-eaters from the game’s host city. 
 

This year’s game, entitled ‘Ruin’, is going to have a freakishly medical theme according to Head Zomboss Alex, and as a trip to the hospital can be terrifying enough (naming no new super hospitals here). A jaunt through Glasgow being chased by flesh-hungry walkers dressed in blood-spattered scrubs with a taste for brains might be enough to push some over the edge.
Around 50 of us gathered in Kelvingrove park surrounded by a curious crowd of onlookers. To begin with, it must of looked like an escaped convict - orange boiler suit and all - was leading a homicidal yoga class.
 

When we’re chasing innocents down the street, we’re not to look to The Walking Dead for inspiration, in fact “anything that has ‘walking’ or ‘living dead’ in it is OUT” according to the trainers. No, we’re to look to Danny Boyle’s 28 Days Later for inspiration: “fast, brutal and uncompromising”.
After we’d done our stretches and vocal warm-ups - we were on to shrieking, snarling, retching, wheezing, coughing, slurping, howling, barking, roaring and all the other unpleasant animal noises you associate from the undead. Imagine the squeals you'd make if you were eating a curry made from ghost peppers and fire.
Tiny children gathered around us with their parents, who had previously been more interest in jumping and puddles and picking up leaves, began watching us intently with wide eyes.
 

Things quickly went from interesting to terrifying for the kids, as these shrieking and howling meat bags stopped being rooted to the spot and started ambling, twisting and jutting towards them from every direction. The air was filled with the type of heavy,gargled breathing that usually signifies imminent death in the movies.
Finally, I was getting a sense of how we’d be moving throughout the game, albeit we were more mud-spattered than blood-splattered in the park.
When we’re out casting long shadows across the Glasgow streets, we’ll be hunting down hundreds of runners every night, but I definitely get the feeling it’s not all about catching the prey - it’s about giving them the experience. The whole 2.8 hours later machine seems centred around the same ideal: a terrifying zombie experience for all involved.
 

 Undoubtedly, the crowd had gathered to see the theatrical spectacle that is Alex - the badass 'Zomboss' of the undead runners in the game. His zombie alter-ego is truly terrifying. Done up in white contacts and a blood-spattered convict scrubs, his participation is fuelled by his self-confessed addiction to chasing down fresh meet in city streets all over the country. Basically, if you see him mid-game, RUN. 
He, and the many more pro-zombies in the game, is key in bringing the wow-factor for the runners playing the game. 2.8 Hours later is already the biggest game of its kind in the world. There’s even word of a game being set up in New York City.
It’s easy to see why - for each UK game roads are closed for traffic and public safety, hundreds of zombies are recruited, coordination with emergency services is constant and attention to detail in set-pieces, from story characters to props and destructible environments makes the current generation of video games look like the lesser option.
 

Some of the howls and shrieks and screams were ear-splitting - it’s amazing the range of notes people can fire out their lungs when there’s a possibility of brains on the menu.
After three hours of flesh-lust, we were just about done for the day. There are five 2015 game dates in Glasgow. Ater hearing and experiencing the level of attention the city has been given by the organisers, the intricacy of this year’s story plot will definitely keep you going across four miles until you hit the Zombie Ball - a massive warehouse party where the infected all get transformed into the undead.
Fitness freaks will love the run. Zombie-nuts will be stopping for selfies with the infected. Gamers will finally get the experience of controlling the story without being sat in front of a screen.
When it's your night to run, come say hi. It’ll be nice to eat you.
 Tickets for the following Glasgow dates are all available at www.2.8hourslater.com 
 Try our quick entertainment quiz below: 

