MORE than 2.1million people attended events held throughout Scotland to celebrate the Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth Games , a report has revealed.
The Glasgow 2014 Cultural Programme was designed to ensure that the Games reached every part of the country.
It began with Culture 2014, a year-long Scotland-wide cultural countdown to the Games, which included events around the country such as the Queen's Baton Relay.
This was followed by Festival 2014 - a series of events in Glasgow during the Games period.
A new report on the cultural programme has revealed it attracted an audience of 2.1 million at more than 12,000 events including performances, exhibitions and celebrations.
In Glasgow specifically, audiences of more than 1.2 million went along to events, with the city hosting more than 1,600 performances, 1,800 education and outreach sessions and 1,400 exhibition days.
The cultural programme was developed by the Glasgow 2014 Organising Committee, Glasgow Life , Creative Scotland and performers, artists and communities across the country.

Culture Secretary Fiona Hyslop, said: &quot;The Glasgow 2014 Cultural Programme was the most ambitious nationwide cultural celebration that has ever taken place in Scotland, bringing a national programme of new work by world-leading and emerging Scottish and international artists to communities across the country, as today's findings show.
&quot;GENERATION, the nationwide programme of exhibitions and events, celebrated the last 25 years of Scottish contemporary art, while the Big Big Sing inspired hundreds of thousands of people from Shetland to Devon to unite in celebration of singing.

&quot;The Scottish Government is committed to securing a legacy for communities across Scotland from the hosting of the 2014 Commonwealth Games, and the cultural programme has offered an excellent platform to strengthen connections both here at home and internationally, through culture and learning, enhancing our reputation as a vibrant and culturally-rich nation.&quot;
Councillor Gordon Matheson, leader of Glasgow City Council , said: &quot;No-one who went along will ever forget Glasgow Green, the Merchant City Festival or any of the hundreds of other performances and events which welcomed over a million people and helped to create the incredible experience Glasgow had as host city.
&quot;Glasgow's reputation as Scotland's cultural powerhouse has been enhanced globally as a result and will reap rewards for the city for years to come.&quot;

