FORD have launched GoDrive - a new car-sharing operation potentially for all UK city centres using Ford Fiestas and the Focus Electric.
The Blue Oval have been testing a very small car-sharing operation in London called City Driving On-Demand.

But now they've stepped up the programme with GoDrive – a one-way service with guaranteed parking at your destination.
The advantage of this system is that you don't need to return the cars to the place of original pick-up like Zipcar.
The service will use a fleet of 1-litre Fiesta EcoBoosts and Focus Electrics and initially be open to 2,000 people who will have access to 50 cars spread across 20 locations around London.
Realtime charges are displayed on GoDrive's smartphone app, and the first five minutes are free so that you can figure out how to use the car's controls.
If it's a success Ford will potentially look to start GoDrive in other UK cities including Glasgow and Edinburgh.
Ford say it's estimated that in the U.K. alone the car-sharing sector will grow by 23 per cent from 2013 to 2025.
And a recent Ford-commissioned survey of 5,500 commuters in major European cities found that a majority of people consider their journey to work more stressful than their actual jobs, and 80 per cent of Londoners said they are late for work once a month or more due to hold-ups.
With the global car-sharing industry expected to exceed &pound;3.8 billion by 2020, Ford is introducing GoDrive to target on-demand use and gain insight on emerging mobility trends and customers’ car-sharing habits. Ford is working with Londoners to understand their mobility needs and travel and parking patterns.
Ken Washington, vice president, Ford Research and Advanced Engineering, said: “As cities become more and more congested, people are becoming increasingly open to new means of mobility, and car sharing is proving to be an appealing model.
“A crucial part of delivering effective car-sharing services is to learn alongside these drivers what best meets their needs and expectations, and complements their location and existing transportation infrastructure.”
Alicia Agius, project lead, GoDrive, Ford of Europe, said: “Our research tells us that car clubs currently are perceived as inflexible when it comes to booking, time slots and return locations. Features such as one-way journeys and pay-as-you-go extend the number of opportunities that drivers would want to car-share and could prove a game-changer.
“More drivers are finding GoDrive to be a key service that can potentially empower people living in the city with its flexible approach.”
