CITY shipbuilders have begun work on the Royal Navy’s second new offshore patrol vessel (OPV) at BAE Systems.
Construction formally started of HMS Medway, the second of three of River Class Batch 2, with her sister HMS Forth moving to the Ship Build Outfit Hall in Glasgow last week. It is being assembled next to the final sections of the second Queen Elizabeth Class aircraft carrier.
Defence Secretary Michael Fallon operated a plasma steel-cutting machine at the event with workers, Govan residents and members of the Royal Navy.
Mick Ord, managing director at BAE Systems Naval Ships, said: “This is a proud day for everyone working on this important programme to deliver three new ships to the Royal Navy. The pace of progress on the River Class vessels reinforces the naval design, engineering and manufacturing skills we have in the UK.
“We are working closely with our trade unions, the Ministry of Defence and partners in the supply chain as we continue to build on our proud heritage shipbuilding heritage.
“With investments in new technologies, cutting-edge processes, new ways of working and improved facilities we are transforming the way we design and build warships. This will enable us to deliver equipment of the highest quality at the lowest possible cost, helping to secure the long-term future of our highly skilled industry in the UK.”
Mr Fallon added: &quot;These new ships are an important part of the &pound;160 billion we are investing over the next decade in the equipment our armed forces need.
&quot;The contract will benefit the dedicated workers of the Clyde, their families and the local economy in Glasgow. And the investment will ensure these shipyards continue to develop into world class engineering facilities at the heart of a thriving British naval shipbuilding capability.&quot;
The 90-metre OPV is already in service with the Brazilian Navy and Royal Thai Navy, but the design has been modified to meet UK requirements. It will be capable of ocean patrol with a range of more than 5,000 nautical miles and a maximum speed of 24 knots.
BAE Systems said the vessels will have a modified flight deck capable of operating the latest Merlin helicopters, larger stores and more accommodation for embarked troops. They will also be the first ships to be built with a BAE Systems designed operating system called “Shared Infrastructure”, which will be rolled out across the Royal Navy’s surface fleet over the next 10 years.
The firm said this system allows replacing large consoles for individual tasks with more integrated technology.
Construction of the third OPV is expected to begin by the end of 2015 with delivery of the first to the Royal Navy in 2017.
