A COUNCIL leader has called on the Scottish Government to help rescue the QE2 from a Dubai shipyard and convert her into a hotel in her home on the Clyde.
 Inverclyde Councillor Stephen McCabe has written to First Minister Nicola Sturgeon asking for support in their bid to bring the iconic ship back to the river where she was constructed before her launch in 1967. 
Images of the much-loved Cunard liner have emerged showing her rusting in a Dubai shipyard after she was bought for &pound;64million in 2007.
 The photos sparked outrage on social media leading to the campaign to bring the boat back to Greenock, where she was fitted out after being built in Clydebank. 
McCabe’s deputy, councillor Jim Clocherty said: “We looked at the Royal Yacht Britannia in Leith and the Discovery in Dundee. The River Clyde was the centre of shipbuilding in Scotland, if not the UK.
“We really should have a link to our shipbuilding past. The Clyde is crying out for it.”
 

The transatlantic liner, launched on the river by the Queen, was retired from active service in 2008 and bought by Middle East conglomerate Dubai World. But plans to convert her into a luxury hotel over there have repeatedly foundered.
The local authority’s idea to buy the vessel is not without its critics. Some local people believe the public money would be better spent on reducing poverty in the area.
However, Clocherty said: “We’d argue that the public purse is sometimes best served by spending upfront.
“Something like this won’t come about without a robust business plan, detailing its impact on the local economy.
“We have the transport infrastructure, one of the world’s largest dry docks next to a deep-water port and we are a tourism hub. It seems like an ideal opportunity.”

Campaigner Rob Lightbody, a member of online campaign group The QE2 Story, claimed the people of Scotland would stand to benefit from bringing the ship home and converting her into a hotel.
But he reckons more people need to be made aware of her sorry plight.
He said: “I think if the public were convinced about the case, then there would be an appetite for it. There is a concrete business case that it can return a profit and it would boost the local economy if the ship was returned to the Clyde.
“The initial cost just to bring her back to the UK would be millions, but there are a lot of skilled jobs to be created with the conversion, and then to run her in her new state.”
 


Speaking about the current condition of the ship, he added: “She is basically intact, just dirty, because for the past two-and-a-half years she has been sitting in the heat in Dubai, with her doors open, being exposed to desert dust, so she is a bit grubby looking.”
Plans had previously been announced for a refit in China, but they appear to have been shelved. Rob added: “They announced grand plans, but they don’t seem to have much substance to them.
“The QE2 is completly lost in Dubai. If she was in the west of Scotland, for instance, she would be a big attraction, and her classic, understated luxury would fit in well.
“She would make a 400-plus room floating hotel, but she would need to be busy to make a profit because she is so big. She could also be a conference venue and a tourist attraction.”
 A Scottish Government spokeswoman said: “We have received Councillor McCabe’s correspondence and will consider and respond in due course.” 

 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

