TORIES selling Scotland down the river is not a news story.
Tories NOT selling Scotland out. Now that would be a news story.
 On that basis, the new Scottish Devolution Bill – debated in the House of Commons today – should not make any headlines. However, it has two big points of interest. 
Firstly, it is not just the usual sell-out. It is a double sell-out.
Secondly, it may be one of the straws which breaks the back of the Union. Another breach of faith could be a breach too far.
On the first, this proposal was meant to implement the commission set up under Lord Robert Smith after the referendum.
Smith was convened to take forward the promises made to Scotland in the desperate last days of the campaign when the Prime Minister was convinced he was losing.
 However, once they got the referendum out of the way, the London parties nobbled the Smith Commission. 
Instead of the promises of “home rule” or “devo to the max” or “near federalism”, Lord Smith was forced to move at the pace of the slowest boat. And at the end of last year, there were plenty of slow boats around.
Instead of delivering on the key promises, Smith proposed a useful but not  fundamental shift of powers from London to Scotland.
However, this new London Bill does not even live up to the Smith recommendations – the verdict not just of the SNP but of an all-party committee of the Scottish  Parliament. This Bill does not even meet Smith.
It is a watered-down version, a dilution of a dilution,&shy; a double sell-out. Here is why.
● It does not entrench the Scottish  Parliament to make it permanent but leaves it at risk of a Westminster override.
● It retains all sorts of daft veto power in the hands of the hapless and very lonely Secretary of State for Scotland.
● It does not deliver to Scotland either the promised economic power or the control over welfare to make a real difference to livelihoods or equality in Scotland.
Instead, it leaves the commanding heights of economic and social control at Westminster. And not content with ripping up the Smith Commission, the Tories plan to ripoff Scotland.
 David Cameron is Prime Minister but for years now he has contracted out his thinking to Chancellor George Osborne. This Tory boy thinks he is so smart that no&shy;body will see through his Baldrick-like cunning plans. In fact, the dogs in the Scottish streets know what he is up to. 
 

He intends to cut Scotland’s funding from Westminster then challenge the Scottish Parliament to pay up. So instead of extra  taxation in Scotland going to benefit the poor, increase public spending or protect vital services, it would go to filling the black holes Osborne is digging.
He must think we have our heads zipped up the back if we were to meekly fall for this pile of rubbish. Instead, we should demand the full implementation of Smith immediately.
However, Scotland now expects more.
There has been an election since Smith reported and in that poll Scotland spoke more clearly than ever before.
The 56 out of 59 MPs returned by the SNP are all committed to getting the real powers required to grow the economy and make Scotland fairer –&shy; the home rule that we were promised.
That means Scotland should control everything bar foreign affairs, the currency and defence.
Over the next few years, taxation and spending power should be devolved to bring that into being.

And, crucially, all of that must take place under the principles agreed by all political parties under Smith. Because last October, Robert Smith was canny enough to make the parties agree to broad principles before they agreed the fine detail of the package.
Principle No6 is the key. It says anything devolved should in its first year neither financially benefit nor disbenefit Scotland. So Tory claims that full fiscal freedom would cost Scotland are hot air &shy;if they stick to what they signed up to.
However, let us assume that they are not. Let us assume that they have no intention of implementing even Smith, never mind Smith Plus.
Let us assume that they plan to ignore the clearest electoral mandate ever given to any party by the people.
Then they will be lighting the blue touch paper on one of the political  firecrackers which could end up breaking their precious Union.
 The Tories seem set on political confrontation with Scotland, continuing with their double sell-out regardless of the wishes or votes of the people. 
It is up to us all to force them to think again – to show some respect for the people of Scotland.
 ● Alex Salmond, the SNP MP for Gordon , has asked that the fee for this article be donated to the Wear It Pink Cancer Campaign. 

