HEARTBROKEN mum Jacquie McDade’s first hello to her baby girl was also her final goodbye.
Tiny Amy was stillborn at 28 weeks, weighing just 1lb 1oz and Jacquie was so distraught she could barely bring herself to look at her daughter.
She never got to see her smile or hear her cry and treasures a box full of precious mementoes of her only child.
Today, the 35-year-old reveals the terrible toll of pre-eclampsia – the second most common cause of death in pregnancy and responsible for 1000 dead babies a year.
Scotland has one of the highest stillbirth rates in the developed world, with one in 200 pregnancies ending in a stillbirth – 10 times as many as those who die of cot death.
Many pregnancy complications such as pre-eclampsia are caused by poor placental function.
 But there are no tests currently available which are able to assess placental  function and a diagnosis of a “sick” placenta is often made relatively late in pregnancy. 
Symptoms start any time from 20 weeks until after the baby is born.
Jacquie has opened her heart to discuss her family’s agony for the first time in a bid to help mums going through the same ordeal.
 

She had no idea she had the most severe form of pre-eclampsia until a routine check-up at hospital revealed her life was at risk and Amy was too small to survive.
She was rushed to the delivery room and endured a 14-hour labour knowing her precious little girl would be stillborn.
She said: “It was the worst day of my life. My blood pressure was very high due to pre-eclampsia and they had to get the baby out.
“I wasn’t prepared. I don’t think you can be for something so traumatic. I could feel Amy kicking and moving throughout and prayed she would live.
 “She was so small and her little heart stopped during the delivery. Nothing prepares  you for seeing your child stillborn. 
“There was no crying, just silence. She looked so perfect, we were completely devastated.”
Jacquie lives with partner Scott, 40, in Glasgow. Together they have been raising funds for Action on Pre-eclampsia, the charity that supported them after Amy’s birth.
 This week they presented a cheque for &pound;850 to the charity with money raised from her work colleagues at Govan Housing Association. 
Jacquie has already raised over &pound;1200 by completing tough 10,000 runs in memory of her little girl, who passed away in May 2013.
She hopes it will help fund research into finding a cure for pre-eclampsia, which affects one in 10 women across the UK.
 

 She added: “It’s the worst thing you could ever go through. My pregnancy had been going well until a 19-week scan found that Amy was very small. 
 “At 28 weeks I was having a routine check-up when the nurse noticed my blood  pressure. I was induced and told Amy was tiny and there was no hope of her surviving. I could hardly take in what was happening. 
“After losing my daughter, I was kept in the maternity ward for five days because I was at risk of having a stroke.
“The worst part was seeing all the other mums with their newborn babies. I had to lie in bed as the families came in with balloons and I just thought, ‘Why did this happen to Amy?’
“It felt unfair because they were so happy and had a baby to take home. Our entire world was torn apart. I was grieving my baby while the other mums celebrated.
“A week later we had to register Amy’s birth and death and then arrange her cremation. We never imagined that this could happen.”
After receiving counselling to help her cope with her loss, Jacquie is now able to look at the little mementos she has kept of her daughter.
She treasures prints of Amy’s hands and feet and admits her little girl is never far from her thoughts.
She said: “When I found out I was expecting we were over the moon. We started buying baby grows and decided at 22-weeks to find out the sex.
 

“We chose the name Amy and were so excited about the future. I’m glad we found we were expecting a girl because in a strange way it felt like we knew a little bit about her.
“I can’t help but think about what she would look like now and what kind of personality she would have. It’s very hard seeing other kids and babies. The birth was heartbreaking but so was having to come to terms with life without her.”
Two years after the tragedy, the couple are unsure if they have the strength to try for more children.
Jacquie added: “I’m petrified it will happen again and I don’t think I could cope with losing another child.
“Scott has been a real tower of strength and people forget that dads go through it all as well as the mother. He has just been amazing.
“But right now I am focused on doing all I can to raise awareness of pre-eclampsia.
 “We will never forget Amy, and that’s why I want to do as much as possible to support the incredible work of the charity.” 

