ENTHUSIASTIC Glasgow footballers have started training for the adventure of a lifetime with a special match in The Gambia.
Glasgow Girls FC have confirmed the trip for November with 22 players and four coaches for a week of the beautiful game.
An invite from Adventure Kicks and Gambian FA offered the chance to help promote girls and womens’ football in a country where female sport just in its infancy.
Jim Strathdee, chairman of the club, said: “Female sport is not encouraged in Gambia, although the sport is growing as with the rest of the world it is the fastest growing sport in the world.
“Glasgow Girls (GGFC) will coach both youngsters and adults and play against local sides with the you youngsters all invited to attend. The club will also donate GGFC strips to clubs to help them start teams.
“We think this is the chance of a lifetime for some of our girls who have never been outside Scotland to see a different culture and style of football, it is also an experience they can add to their coaching CV before we go the SFA will put every player through a level-1 coaching badge although some players through collage are already at level-3.”
 

Martin Myers, FIFA match agent for Adventure Kicks, a football development and tourism organisation, said they have been working to take Scottish clubs abroad and knew GGFC wanted to promote the game in new and innovative ways.
He said: “I have focussed on the women's game as I feel that the game needs opportunities to raise the profile and see these tours as an ideal chance to do this.
“Living in Glasgow I was very keen to work with a local club with strong community links who could field a strong enough team to take on a national side. Glasgow Girls ticked all the boxes.
“The trip will be used to promote the FIFA campaign 'live your goals' and so the players will help promote how young women can aspire to a career in football both here in Scotland and The Gambia.
“Clearly, attitudes towards womens’ football needs to change and we very much hope that this trip can assist with this.
“We hope the games, held in partnership between the GFF and Adventure Kicks, will raise the profile of the women's game in Gambia and the wider west African region so that more people can get involved, follow the game, attend matches and promote the sport.
“The teams playing GG will have the experience of playing games on an international stage, something not previously offered in this way. Not only will GG play games but they will also participate in community coaching programmes where they can pass on their knowledge and love for the game.
“This will be an amazing experience for the GG team as well as the girls who they'll be coaching.”
The squad needs to raise &pound;16,000 to fund the trip and will be using race nights, bag packs and other events. They are looking for stores in which to bag pack and companies to sponsor the kits for the November 17-25 trip.
To contribute to the fundraising, visit https://localgiving.com/appeal/gambia
