A construction company has admitted failures over the death of a worker at a building site in Glasgow.
Daniel Hurley , 31, from Cork, Ireland, died after a 1.6 tonne steel frame fell on top of him at the site in Murano Street, Maryhill, on 15 October 2009.
Morris and Spottiswood admitted health and safety failings over the bolts used to secure the frame and the holes which held them.
At Glasgow Sheriff Court, sentence on the firm was deferred.
The court heard that Mr Hurley was working on the site when a steel frame, that stood at about 24.5ft, was put in place using a crane and bolted down before chains holding it were released. 
Some minutes later it toppled over and landed on the ground, on top of Mr Hurley, pulling three of the four bolts clean out of the ground and snapping the other in half. 
The court heard that at the time of the incident, a warning was shouted to Mr Hurley who began to run, in the same direction as the frame was falling. 
The top beam of the frame struck him across the back of his shoulders and neck.
Steel erectors managed to lift the frame off Mr Hurley and paramedics were called. They performed CPR at the scene and in an ambulance but Mr Hurley was pronounced dead at the nearby Western Infirmary.
The court was told it was the opinion of Health and safety Executive inspector Michael Thomson that the &quot;inadequate installation&quot; of the foundation bolts was the most critical factor in the mechanism of collapse of the steel frame. 
Morris and Spottiswood pleaded guilty to failing to check that bolts on the ground for the frame were installed by someone who was trained and competent.
They also admitted failing to ensure that the holes drilled were the correct diameter and able to receive the bolts.
Since the incident Morris and Spottiswood - who have a good health and safety record - have replaced all bolts previously installed at the site. 
Metal fence panels available on site were also used to create exclusion zones around any remaining steel erection works. 
The court heard that Mr Hurley was working for a sub-contracted firm Advance Construction Scotland as a ground worker at the time of the fatal accident. 
Queens Cross Housing Association, owners of the land, appointed Morris and Spottiswood as principal contractor for the &pound;36m contract to build flats and houses over three sites in Maryhill, Glasgow, one of which was at the site of the accident. 
As principal contractor Morris and Spottiswood subcontracted another firm to design, make and put up the steel work for the development. 
That other company then subcontracted a third company to physically put the steelwork up. 
The court heard that neither are trading anymore or charges would have been brought against them.
