A COMATOSE addict lies passed out in broad daylight with a needle in his clawed hand – a searing indictment of a failed drug policy.
The picture was taken on a patch of land just yards from a busy supermarket, a main road and a new housing estate where children play football and ride their bikes.
Dog walkers also walk through the hellish scenes where a mountain of syringes, spoons and other drugs paraphernalia have been dumped by drug addicts.
The photo – one of a series taken by locals – reveals the true extent of Scotland’s heroin shame. It comes after we revealed horrific scenes of drug abuse in the nation.
One picture last week showed an addict shooting up in a pop-up tent in a drug-infested encampment below Aberdeen’s main street.
We also published a picture of two addicts lying unconscious in a Dundee close, with their trousers down and the woman clutching a needle.
The latest shocking images were snapped near a new Morrisons supermarket in the Gallowgate in Glasgow – near the city centre.
 

A resident, who wished to remain anonymous, said: “It is absolutely hellish around here now. I’ve lived here for nearly 40 years and have never known things to be so bad.
“The junkies are not locals. I’ve no idea why they are coming here – maybe it’s because the drugs are better or because they can get them more easily here.
“Kids are always coming here to have a kick about here so it’s only a matter of time before they fall and get jabbed by a dirty needle.
“The place is full of druggies who come here and shoot up. They don’t care who sees them. You can even see the dealers with their Rottweiler dogs. It’s a total disgrace. People have complained to the police and the council and nothing happens. They couldn’t care less.
“I’ve seen the police here but I once watched as they got their tea out of Morrisons and drank it in their car as a junkie was shooting up a few yards away.”
Yesterday, we went to the drug-infested patch and, in just one square metre of land, found more than 20 dirty needles, swabs and foil burners used to “cook up” shots of heroin.
Our spotlight on Glasgow’s heroin hell is the latest in a long line of stories revealing the failure of the nation’s drugs policy.
In August last year, we published a picture showing the shocking sight that greeted a mother and child on their doorstep.
 

The disturbing image of addicts slumped unconscious still clutching needles was taken in the close of a Dundee tenement where families live. The man and woman are seen with their jeans pulled down.
The 33-year-old man had fallen against a wall and the 30-year-old woman is flat on her back with her underwear exposed after injecting the drug into her groin.
Another image of drug addiction in Aberdeen sparked outrage and prompted calls for the drug abusers to be cleared from historic Union Terrace Gardens.
Now one of Scotland’s leading experts on drug addiction has urged a major rethink on drug policy from the Scottish Government.
Peter McCann, who runs Castle Craig Hospital, a rehab clinic in the Borders, said: “We need proper treatment for addicts that focuses on getting people off drugs for good.
“That is not an easy thing to achieve. It involves long-term residential care, not just 15 minutes with a councillor.
“We don’t have that and that’s why we have such an enormous problem with drug abuse in Scotland.
 

“People who abuse drugs are suffering from a disease of the brain, there is no point locking them up in prison where we know they can often have better access to drugs.
“The Government need to completely rethink their attitude to drug addiction and invest in getting offenders into proper treatment rather than prison.
“Methadone is not a solution because we know that methadone users will inject drugs as well. The real solutions to drug addiction are difficult, but the Government need to face up to them.”
Last night, Inspector Matthew Webb of Police Scotland, said they had deployed additional patrols in the Gallowgate.
He added: “Our officers have received similar complaints relating to other locations close by and high-visibility patrols have been stepped up to put a stop to this activity.”
Glasgow City Council said: “Our community safety officers will investigate this complaint so appropriate action can be taken. We will always address such problems when they are highlighted.”
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

