 MY FIRST appointment this week was at Govan shipyard. The occasion was the ceremonial cutting of the first steel , marking the start of construction of HMS Medway. 
Doing the honours was the Secretary of State for Defence, Michael Fallon MP.
Medway is the second of three patrol ships awarded to BAE on the Clyde by the UK government. The contract will keep the yards busy between the completion of the two aircraft carriers and the start of work on the Type 26 Frigates.
Medway will be used by the MOD to provide international humanitarian relief, and tackle problems across the globe like drug smuggling and piracy.
Of more direct interest to me are the thousands of jobs and apprenticeships in the city that have been secured by these orders.
At the steel-cutting ceremony I was able to speak to representatives of management, the unions, and the workforce, including apprentices.
I was again struck by the quality of the workforce and the high-tech sophistication of the processes that go into building defence ships on the Clyde. BAE in Govan and Scotstoun is a world-class business.
Because of the skill and flexibility of the workforce, the Clyde has consistently been able to win contracts which meet the very exacting standards of the Royal Navy, and the quality and value-for-money demanded by the Ministry of Defence.
We should all be proud of our shipyards and continue to support them. And it is great to know that we can look forward to Clyde-built ships sailing the seven seas for decades to come.
***
SUMMER is here. I say that just in case you hadn't noticed. The weather has been, let's say, changeable.
But that hasn't stopped all the activities in the city that take place at this time of year. School plays and concerts, bus trips and sports days, community clean-ups and fundays, church fairs and galas.
An enormous amount of effort goes into organising these events. Almost all of it is done on a voluntary basis.
I want to thank everyone who gives of their time to bring the community together. These occasions are important in the life of the city but they only happen because our fellow citizens are prepared to roll up their sleeves and make them happen.
So let's here it for all of our teachers, volunteers and community activists. They do a wonderful job and really pull the stops out at this time of year.
The least we can do is to attend local events and show our support. And please form an orderly queue at the home baking stall!
If you want to get involved with a local group, or if you have ideas for making things happen in your part of the city, please speak to a local councillor who will be happy to offer support.
***
ONE recent event that I attended was a concert given by Big Noise Govanhill.
Big Noise is a children's orchestra. Its mission is to transform children's lives through music, based on an approach first developed in Venezuela.
The simple and effective idea is that children work hard, succeed at playing a musical instrument, and so boost their confidence. This helps them to succeed in other areas of their lives and realise their potential.
There is no payment required, and no auditions or entry requirements. If you live or attend school in the Govanhill area you can join. A spin-off parent's orchestra has started too.
Glasgow City Council is proud to support Big Noise Govanhill and I am impressed by the recent evaluation report which shows how effective it has been since it was established in 2013.
 Visit their website to get involved.
***
WITHIN my own electoral ward I had the pleasure last Saturday of attending the Funday organised by the parent council of St Mungo's primary school in Townhead.
There were bouncy castles, a police van and fire engine (with noisy sirens), tombola and cake stalls, and a DJ playing the latest chart hits.
It was a great community occasion which raised valuable funds for extra equipment and activities for the school.
I know similar events are being organised all across the city, proving time and again that it's people who make Glasgow.
Well done one and all. And enjoy.
