TODAY'S hard-hitting front page showing a heroin addict brazenly shooting up in broad daylight will shock every reader.
And further images of drug paraphernalia strewn across wasteland within a stone’s throw of a supermarket are equally troubling.
Ordinary people have to live and work beside this. That is unacceptable.
Children play nearby and could easily be injured by needles. That is horrifying.
The pictures are visual proof that those who still insist Scotland has got on top of its shameful drug problem are dreaming.
Despite decades of Government promises, police crackdowns and a glut of new drug strategies, the reality on the street is still one of communities blighted and lives ruined.
The time has come for a new way of thinking about the whole issue.
Let’s be clear, the Daily Record is not calling for the legalisation of hard drugs.
But surely everyone must now recognise that a radical new solution is needed.
Many experts insist sending addicts to jail compounds the problem at a major expense to the public. They say that money could be better spent in treatment and rehabilitation. Their voice must be listened to.
Meanwhile, heroin addicts are still being parked on methadone for years without coming any closer to beating their addiction.
The authorities make them swap one drug for another in the hope it will make them less likely to turn to crime to fund their habit.
Scotland’s drugs laws and treatment strategies are simply not working. We need a change.
 Sums ’em up 
THE Tories want us to be grateful that the cuts being imposed on Scotland aren’t as bad as they first threatened.
Instead of &pound;177million, it will be &pound;107million. Excuse us for failing to celebrate.
Most people will still see a whopping great cut coming their way.
The Chancellor clearly thinks it’s acceptable to keep people guessing.
But only a Bullingdon boy would pass off a &pound;70million difference as though it was a minor alteration. If anything, it underlines how detached the Conservatives are.
Ordinary people are being forced to count their pennies, never mind the pounds.
If the Tories can’t get their ideological sums right the first time, what hope that they’re getting anything else right?
STORIES like Harrison Cannon’s battle to survive should prompt anyone who hasn’t donated blood to think again.
He was still in the womb when life-saving transfusions began. Now he’s a healthy two-year-old with incredibly grateful parents.
That’s why it’s worrying to see figures showing a 40 per cent drop in new donors over a decade.
Blood donors save lives. It’s as simple as that.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

