THE setting is idyllic, with waves lapping gently on the shoreline of a peaceful &shy;Highland croft.
But the tale behind Lou &shy;McLoughlan’s acclaimed new film begins with an act of brutality.
The Scots director followed the life of convicted murderer Uisdean Mackay for four years after his release.
He had been handed a life sentence in 1994 after being convicted of shooting psychiatric nurse Cathy McQueen at point-blank range in Inverness.
When he was released 16 years later to care for his elderly father Calum, he agreed to be filmed by Lou for a documentary about returning to his family’s croft and trying to reintegrate into society.
The result is 16 Years Till Summer, which has just enjoyed a sell-out premiere at the prestigious Sheffield Doc/Fest and is now to be shown at film festivals around the world.
Lou first encountered Mackay when she was a student working with prisoners as part of her film course.
She made a short movie about his release, Caring For Calum, which became a hit in the indie film world, and decided to turn it into a feature.
Lou shadowed Mackay from 2010, when he was released on licence to live in Lochcarron, Wester Ross.
In the documentary, he tries to rebuild his life after prison – but he refuses to take responsibility for his crime, coming up with a convoluted excuse for the savage killing.
Mackay blasted Cathy, 57, to death with his poaching rifle when she threatened to reveal his affair with another woman. But he blamed sciatica pain in his back and a trip over a piece of carpet for the rifle going off and shooting her between the eyes.
Rather than concentrating on the ins and outs of the murder conviction, Lou paints a moving portrait of the near-solitary life of a man trying to make a new start and reconnect with his father in the remote Highlands.
She explained: “The backstory is quite brutal and there is the beauty of the surroundings. It is a story of huge contrasts.
“I felt challenged to make this film when Uisdean first said to me, ‘You should show that not all prisoners are monsters.’
“I’m not here to be a second jury to him. He has been found guilty of murder and he has done 16 years for it.
“He has picked up a really horrible heroin addiction in prison and probably had a really horrible time. What I had to do was make sure it was as neutral as possible.
“I put the film together so that it would be asking questions and not making idiotic statements, because the audience is intelligent enough to read between the lines.”
Surrounded by breathtakingly beautiful wilderness, Mackay is seen working hard on the croft to help Calum, only to leave soon after to set up his own digs.
Lou, who is based in Glasgow, said: “He had been institutionalised for 16 years and wasn’t used to doing things for himself, let alone doing things for an elderly relative. But he seemed to be doing very well until loneliness kicked in.
 

“When you are in a prison, you are in a tiny village full of gossip, full of friendship, full of random violence.
“There are people around you all the time – and suddenly he finds himself in another form of exile up in the Highlands with nobody except a man who is twice his age.”
She added: “When Uisdean was released in his mid-50s on the strict conditions of life licence, I presumed that freedom would be harder than home leave – that caring for an elderly man alone, without the framework of 16 years of prison routine and with the stigma of a murder conviction, would be the harder battle.
“Though he worked diligently and imaginatively to invent a new normality for himself and those that loved him, I was aware of the fragility of that normality, and of others’ dependency on it.
“In the initial stages of filming I assumed Uisdean’s story was about the unconditional love between a parent and son.
“However, as I continued filming, I realised what was unfolding was about something bigger than that. It was actually an examination of love itself.”
During filming, Mackay’s freedom was interrupted when he was charged with stabbing a man.
She said: “Everything he creates seems to become undone. And yet he creates things with such courage and such imagination.
“I don’t know what kind of gall it takes to go into a small community with the stigma of that murder and then recreate yourself and act like everything is OK.
“He is quite a personality and quite a character.”
While back in prison awaiting trial, Mackay was told he would not inherit the croft from his father, who later died in a care home.
But during that spell back behind bars, Mackay also &shy;encountered unexpected good fortune as a result of correspondence with a woman called Audrey, who believed he should be given a second chance in life.
Lou said: “She met him on a home visit previously and had taken a shine to him and had been trying to find him.
“Eventually she does find him, but he is back in prison.”
A jury returned a not proven verdict and when Mackay was released, Audrey waited for him and he went to live with her at her home in the Highlands.
His freedom was short-lived, however, as he was soon arrested for drink-driving after being involved in a crash.
He was convicted and sent back to prison and his licence to liberty was revoked.
One of the rising stars of Scottish film and television, Lou shot Caring For Calum as part of her coursework for an MFA in film directing at Edinburgh College of Art.
She said: “I just thought of it as an exercise but the college entered it for competitions and it suddenly got awards.”
 The film won two BAFTA awards, a Grierson award and an RTS Award and Lou was added to BAFTA’s “Brits to watch” list, which helped her get funding from Creative Scotland for  16 Years till Summer. 
Lou has been in contact with Mackay this week and he is still in jail.
But she said: “I thought it would be a happy ending. I thought he would establish the croft and live up to his kitsch ideas of the Highlands and the traditional crofting life.
“You get the feeling of things coming full circle even before the credits roll.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

