A SCOTS adventurer is bidding to become the first Muslim to trek to the South Pole.
Mostafa Salameh, 44, who has already conquered the highest mountain on every continent – known as the Seven Summits Challenge – was brought up in a refugee camp before coming to the UK to study at Edinburgh University.
He has also trekked to the North Pole, raising large sums for charity and always carrying the Saltire.
He has already received a number of awards and was knighted by the King of Jordan for his services to charity.
Now Scots-Jordanian Mostafa, who is of Palestinian origin, is bidding to reach the South Pole and raise cash for Islamic Relief education and climate change projects.
Mostafa, from Bruntsfield, Edinburgh, was inspired to get into mountaineering after dreaming one night in 2004 that he had climbed Mount Everest.
He quit smoking, started training and, after selling his house and car to afford the trip, his dream came true on May 25, 2008, when he stood on the summit of highest mountain in the world, becoming the first Jordanian to climb Everest.
Mostafa completed the Seven Summits on November 16, 2012 – one of just 250 people to have done so.
His latest adventure trek is being announced officially at a launch in Renfrew today, along with that of musician Zain Bhikha, who will raise funds with a 13-date tour.
Islamic Relief fundraising manager Zia Salik said: “There are millions of people around the world whose hunger will know no end.
“We hope that Scottish Muslims will support our campaign and help us to share their relief with those less fortunate.
 “We will also hear from Islamic Relief’s head of mission for Syria about the  challenges of delivering aid in the Syrian conflict and from Mostafa Salameh about a remarkable polar trek that we hope the people of Scotland will want to get behind.” 
The theme of Islamic Relief’s Ramadan Campaign in 2015 is Share Your Relief. It encourages UK Muslims to give to support those less fortunate.
The charity’s campaign adverts state: “When we stop fasting, they don’t.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

