 THE family of a woman murdered in her own home will take their campaign for violent reoffenders to be kept in prison for the rest of their lives to the Scottish Parliament today. 
 Isabelle Sanders, 51, was stabbed to death by Paul McManus , 20, during a robbery at her home in Crookston, Glasgow, in April last year. 
 He was given a life sentence with a minimum term of 26 years before he can apply for parole. 
 Ms Sanders's siblings James and Lindsay Dougall want the Scottish Judiciary to be given the option to sentence violent reoffenders who commit murder to a whole-life custodial sentence . 
They have lodged a petition at Holyrood calling for the change, and will give evidence at the Public Petitions Committee today.
During McManus's trial it was heard that he stabbed Ms Sanders 37 times. He was also convicted of attempting to murder her partner Norman Busby, 86.
Afterwards it emerged he had been released from serving a previous sentence five weeks before the murder.
The petition, which has attracted almost 1,000 signatures of support, calls &quot;on the Scottish Parliament to urge the Scottish Government to increase the maximum possible sentence for violent reoffenders who commit murder to be a whole of life custodial sentence&quot;.
Referring to Ms Sanders's murder, it says: &quot;In a situation such as this where a previously violent offender flagrantly disregards the rehabilitation offered and the opportunity given to him through early release and then goes on to commit a violent murder, then I believe that the Scottish Judiciary need to be given the option and the guidance to impose a whole of life punishment sentence.&quot;
At present the charge of murder is required by law to carry a mandatory life sentence, comprised of a minimum jail term and an indeterminate period during which the prisoner remains in custody if necessary for the protection of the public.
Scots law already allows for the possibility that the minimum period of custody set by the judge may exceed the prisoner's life expectancy. However, the judiciary in Scotland do not currently have the power to impose a whole life order without specifying a period of years and months.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

