POLICE sealed off a street in Port Glasgow early today after a woman who had suffered horrific injuries was found in a common close.
 The 63-year-old was rushed to Inverclyde Hospital in Greenock , but later died from her injuries, thought to be consistent with stab wounds. 
Today police forensic teams carried out detailed searches of both the front and the back of the tenement block in Glen Avenue in the town.
A 200-metre stretch of the road was completely sealed off with only local residents being allowed access.
The woman was rushed to hospital shortly after midnight.
It is thought she was the victim of a domestic-type incident and that the killer was known to her.
 
Local people said she had not lived in the block long and that she was living in a private rented flat.
 

Forensics teams concentrated on the stairwell of the second floor of the building. One local man said: “I was out at midnight walking the dog as I always do.
“A small black dog ran out of the close where it happened and I remember thinking that was unusual.
“The close door is normally open, but I thought one of the flats inside must have had its door open, which you don’t expect at that time of night.
“I got back inside my flat and then within five minutes there were police cars and an ambulance right out in front in the street.
 
“I watched while the paramedics brought someone out. I could see she was a woman, but she seemed to be almost sitting up.
“I was just hoping it wasn’t that serious and that’d she’d be OK.
“Had it not been for all the police in the street it would have just looked like the woman had taken unwell. Knowing what I know now it is a tragedy.
 

“It is the last thing you’d expect to happen here.
“I’ve lived here for two years and it is a quiet street.”
A local woman said:”No one seems to know who the woman was. I don’t think she had lived in the street or even the area for very long.
“For something like this to happen here is shocking. My heart goes out to her family.”
The victim was found in a close on the street with serious injuries shortly after midnight.
 
A post-mortem is to be carried out to establish the cause of death.
Detectives are said to be following a positive line of inquiry.
 

A Police Scotland spokeswoman said:”At about 12.10am a 63-year-old woman was discovered with serious injuries within a close in Glen Avenue, Port Glasgow.
“She was taken to hospital where she died shortly after admission.”
Police scenes of crime officers could be seen at the rear of the tenement which backs on to a children’s play park and a hillside wooded area.
The focus of their attention was a close at number 15.
Police have not yet named the victim.
  

Try our quick news quiz below: 

