SCOTLAND'S newest hospital is the worst-performing for patient waiting times in accident and emergency (A&amp;E), according to the latest weekly figures.
They show that in the week ending Sunday May 31, a total of 1,420 patients were seen at the &pound;842 million South Glasgow University Hospital's A&amp;E department.
A total of 238 people waited for more than four hours to be admitted, transferred or discharged, with 20 waiting for more than eight hours.
The Scottish Government has set an interim goal of treating 95% of people in four hours in advance of meeting the full target of 98%.
 

The 83.2% performance rate for the new facility, which opened its doors to patients in April, is the lowest across Scotland's 31 A&amp;E departments.
The 1,109-bed hospital on the site of the Southern General is one of the largest acute hospitals in the UK.
The new campus replaces the Royal Hospital for Sick Kids at Yorkhill, the Southern General Hospital, Western and Victoria infirmaries and Mansionhouse Unit.
NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde had the lowest performance rate for any health board, with 88.5% of patients seen within four hours.
 

The health board also had the highest number of people attending A&amp;E at 6,670.
Throughout Scotland, overall performance improved slightly, with a total of 92.6% of people treated within four hours, up from 92% in the previous week.
The figures show 156 patients waited more than eight hours and 21 patients waited more than 12 hours.
Health Secretary Shona Robison said: &quot;Today's figures show that our NHS staff are continuing to work hard towards delivering a first-class service for Scotland.
&quot;This week has seen an improvement in waiting times but weekly publications will continue to show fluctuations in these figures.
&quot;What is important now is that health boards focus on sustaining the reduced waiting times we have recently seen and make more, sustainable progress towards meeting our world-leading targets.&quot;
The Government has put in place an action plan to improve unscheduled emergency care and Ms Robison said &pound;100 million had been invested to tackle delayed discharges, otherwise known as bed blocking.
Try your hand at our news quiz

