A man who admitted secretly filming a female friend in her flat and uploading naked pictures of her to the internet has been jailed for 12 months.
Stanley Gibbs, 35, covertly set up recording devices in the woman's Glasgow home and published them online under the username &quot;Psycho Stan&quot;.
He was caught when a friend of the woman saw them online. Police later recovered 60,000 stored moving images.
Gibbs was also placed on the sex offenders' register for 10 years.
At Glasgow Sheriff Court he was also made subject of a non-harassment order relating to his victim for the same length of time. 
Sheriff Andrew Mackie told Gibbs he had reduced his jail term from 18 months because of his guilty plea. 
&quot;Your behaviour as you know was deplorable and appalling,&quot; the sheriff told Gibbs.
&quot;It was a gross breach of trust and it was a gross invasion of your victim.&quot; 
Gibbs, a business analyst from Erskine, Renfrewshire, pleaded guilty to using electronic devices to record the woman in a state of undress. 
He also admitted uploading indecent footage of her on to the internet and recording her without her knowledge between October 2012 and June 2014. 
The court heard Gibbs and the woman had been friends for a number of years and that he regularly visited the flat where she stayed. 
In June last year, a friend of the woman was online and recognised various pictures of her. 
The person who uploaded the images claimed that the woman was unaware they had been taken and that he got &quot;sexual gratification&quot; from the pictures.
The friend saved everything on a USB stick and contacted the woman to advise her she should leave her flat. 
The police were then alerted and a search warrant was granted for Gibbs' house. 
He was detained and interviewed by police before being cautioned and charged. 
Electronic equipment was seized including a laptop, hard drive, mobile phone and tablet, as well as a digital camera. 
They were analysed and 60,000 moving images were found which had been taken &quot;covertly&quot;. 
The court heard much of the footage was of &quot;day-to-day&quot; business, although indecent footage was also captured. 
It was heard that the woman was &quot;shocked and disgusted&quot; and that she had &quot;trusted the accused like family&quot;. 
