MEMBERS of a grieving family have told MSPs of the horrific murder their sister suffered in her own home as they appealed for violent offenders in such cases to be locked up for life.
Isabelle Sanders, 51, suffered 37 stab wounds in the attack and her partner was also brutally knifed by Paul McManus during a robbery at home in Glasgow last year.
Her brother James Dougall and sister Lindsay Dougall said there is a small group of criminals from which the public “need protection” because prison is not a “deterrent.”
The family told Holyrood’s petitions committee today they will never get over the attack, but keeping the most dangerous criminals in jail for life would “send out a message.”
Mr Dougall told MSPs: “My sister Isabelle was 51-years-old. She was violently attacked in her own home - not just violently attacked in her own home, but chased through the house stabbed 37 times and suffered 67 individual injuries.
“Eventually (she) fell jammed between a chair and a cupboard. At least three or four of the stab wounds penetrated individual organs. She died at the scene.”
He told MSPs that McManus received a 26-year sentence and will be released when is 45.
“That’s the same age as me - in fact six years younger than Isabelle when she was murdered in her own home,” he added.
He was also convicted of attempting to murder her partner Norman Busby, 86, who was in the house at the time. Afterwards it emerged he had been released from serving a previous sentence five weeks before the murder.
The family now want the Scottish Judiciary to be given the option to sentence violent reoffenders who commit murder to a whole-life custodial sentence. They have lodged a petition at Holyrood calling for the change.
Mr Dougall said statistics show there about 5 per cent of prisoners in Scotland who have “disregarded attempts at rehabilitation” in the penal system.
“They’ve no intention to rehabilitate, they’ve been through a whole life sentence yet still they’re released and go on to re-offend again.
“The 5 per cent - that’s the offenders we’d like to target with the this petition - that’s the people we see as being appropriate for whole of life sentencing.”
Mr Dougall told MSPs that he doesn’t believe the current system of sentencing inmates for the effective duration of the rest of their lives is sufficient.
“The 5 per cent will be deterred by nothing. That’s the whole point,” he added.
“The public needs to be protected from this 5 per cent because there is no adequate deterrent.”
He said afterwards: “The re-offending rate is there. If it was up to me I would not be wanting to take the risk of letting these people back out in the public domain.”
Mr Dougall added: “It would certainly send a message to the public - I would hope that.”
Courts in Scotland have the power to impose whole of sentences cover a prisoner’s entire life in extreme cases. But Mr Dougall said the only case he was aware of this having happened was last year when Angus Sinclair was convicted for the infamous Worlds End murders in Edinburgh in 1977.
His sister Lindsay said that the family is still coming to terms with the tragedy.
“I don’t think we’ll ever get over this,” she said.
“The whole thing is unbelievable still, even though it’s a year down the line. I don’t think any of us will ever come to terms with what happened.
“You expect when you go home to your house, you expect to be safe. You don’t expect anything like that to happen to anybody you know.”
Ms Dougall said that the Facebook page set up to support the family show the support there is for their campaign.
“People have commented on that and agreed with the need for a whole life sentence,” she said.
Former justice secretary Kenny MacAskill said the issue could be considered by Scotland’s new sentencing council which is due to be established in the coming months.
