Fifteen ‘companies’ which have been set up by pupils from schools across the country are competing in the prestigious final of the Young Enterprise Scotland Awards at the Glasgow Thistle Hotel on June 17.
The awards which are in their 20th year recognise the achievements of the students taking part in Young Enterprise Scotland’s Company Programme.
The students, who are aged between 16 and 18, and their companies have already won regional finals held over the past couple of months.
Some 2329 students and 140 schools have taken part in the programme and created a total of 219 new businesses.
 
 
 
Our 15 Scottish Finalists who have been successful at their local finals and will compete for Scottish Company of the Year 2015 and the chance to represent Scotland at the UK Finals in London in July.
This is your chance to vote for The People’s Choice Award. The fifteen finalists are:
 

STAMP! from Oban High School set out to create innovative products utilising sustainable and trustworthy sourced components. STAMP! stands for &quot;Sustainable, Trustworthy and Man-made Products&quot; and the company have made handmade crafts including log candles, holly wreaths and cushions.
&quot;We have all immensely enjoyed the programme and feel it has given us an invaluable and rewarding insight into the reality of the business world.&quot;
 

The Go Co from Stewarton Academy has produced high quality cotton bags for life to be used on the Go.
Managing Director, Jonathan: “All of the hard work which has gone into The Go Co has been so worthwhile. I’ve loved every stress-filled minute of this fantastic experience and learned so much, gaining experience in dealing with business owners and the public as well as our own team.&quot;
 

Castle Dining from Castle Douglas High School set out to create a profitable product that would fly the flag for their town. They produced a cook book containing local recipes from around Castle Douglas and Stewartry area working closely with talented local chefs and businesses.
Alastair Berry, Managing Director: &quot;I am extremely proud to be the Managing Director of such an innovative, hardworking team and would like to thank all members for their valuable contributions throughout the year. It has been especially rewarding to watch each individual in the team grow and develop as the process has progressed.&quot;
 

Dinamus from Lomond School set out to upcycle old vinyl records into wall clocks, coasters and photo frames. The team appealed to their school community for people to donate their old vinyls and fully embraced the retro theme by having an old record player on their trade stand and dressing in 1950s style when attending events.
Harris Hameed, Managing Director: &quot;I have learned a lot in terms of leadership skills and we all faced challenges as a team.&quot;
(Photo courtesy of Audoire Images)
 

Empresa from Waid Academy set out to provide the best quality product to their customers. Their main product was a bag for bags and they made other hand crafted gifts suitable for all occasions. All of their products were handmade and the company used recycled materials from the school.
&quot;We have gained many different experiences from running our own business and are more confident when talking to customers and members of the public. We have also realised that working together in a group can be challenging but we have worked past that to make our business work.&quot;
 

The Wee Box Company from Bo'ness Academy set out to provide good quality themed gift ideas for friends and family at an affordable price. They created a number of themed boxed gifts: 'Spa in a Box'; Christmas in a Box'; 'Retro Sweets in a Box'; 'Valentine’s Day in a Box'; and 'Chocolate Heaven in a Box'.
&quot;Our passion, drive and determination to succeed have played a critical role in helping our company achieve our key business objectives this year. As a result of participating in this process, all team members have developed as individuals and gained a variety of business skills and experiences.&quot;
 

iWood from the High School of Glasgow set out to sustainably produce wooden stands for iPads and other tablets. Having successfully manufactured and sold these products to the public online and at events, the team feel they have really grown as a company.
Tom Milne, Managing Director, &quot;Through times with a lacking of sales, long nights sanding and varnishing, the team has stood strong, throughout all issues that've been thrown at us.”
 

Top Glass from Inverurie Academy set out to promote an environmentally friendly ethos, through innovation and teamwork, to develop high quality, upcycled glass products. Top Glass took advantage of a change in their local council recycling policy and produced a range of decorated bottles as well as serving plates, candle holders and candy cane jars.
&quot;Initially, power struggles arose as a potential difficulty for the company to overcome, however, as time progressed skills were highlighted and roles were allocated effectively to ensure that the company operated efficiently and objectives were achieved.&quot;
 

Aspect from Fortrose Academy set out to design and market reflective iron on shapes for children’s clothing and the Carry Your Bag pocket carrier bag holder.
 
 

Rise Enterprise from Airdrie Academy set out to improve community spirit in Airdrie and involve local businesses in their mission. Rise Enterprise produced products for the home and their own cookbook, Local Secrets, with recipes from local businesses and people and printed by a local printing company.
Company Secretary, Lesley: &quot;Young Enterprise has allowed me valuable insight into how a business is run and has fuelled my desire to study business at university.&quot;
 

Dundas Links from Edinburgh Academy set out to produce a premium quality product targeted at a wide market, through product selection and strict control of production, marketing and IT. Dundas Links wanted to bring a new, fresh take on cufflinks to today's market by adding antique coins and shotgun shells instead of bland decorations.
Christopher Stillie, Managing Director: &quot;Throughout this process I have been amazed at the way it has revealed and developed talents in people that were never fully explored before.&quot;
 

Fjara from Kirkwall Grammar School set out to create unique sea glass jewellery which reflected their heritage. Fjara produced jewellery using sea glass they collected from beaches around Orkney and were able to sell them at a number of local events, craft fairs and local outlets.
&quot;Young Enterprise has given us many opportunities which would not have been available to us otherwise.&quot;
 

Red Thistle from Mearns Castle High School set out to provide innovative, unique and quality products to school communities and the general public whilst supporting traditional Scottish industry. Red Thistle designed an exclusive tartan lambs wool scarf based on their school colours and had it recognised as part of the school uniform. This lead to sales within the school and also feeder primary schools. Red Thistle diversified and produced leather key rings and forget me not boards to ensure they were able to bring in revenue out with the winter season.
&quot;Our team has enjoyed the thoroughly challenging experience of Young Enterprise and we have all grown together over the year. The skills and work ethic gained will be highly beneficial to all members in their future ventures.&quot;
 

Cast Away Enterprises from Anderson High School set out to produce a board game for tourists to Shetland to find out more about the Islands. Their game, Shetlandopoly, was very popular with them producing 500 games and having 40 left after their local finals. The team had a turnover of over &pound;9000.
Managing Director, Liam Peterson: &quot;This has been an enjoyable but challenging experience. We learned a lot from it like organisational and communication skills.&quot;
 

Infinity Enterprises from Monifieth High School set out to provide high quality seasonal products and services with outstanding customer service to their local markets. Having sold a number of seasonal products throughout the year one of the biggest achievements for Infinity was securing a retail unit in their local high street in the month running up to Christmas.
&quot;We have experienced the good points, bad points, and the in between points where you have no idea what's going on: all you would expect when running and being part of an actual business.&quot;

