TWO Scots beauty queens have won the opportunity to represent their country in an international pageant at Disneyland
Kendal Nicol, 15, and Amy Meisak, 21, will travel to the French capital next April for the finals after being crowned Teen and Adult Face of the Globe Scotland last month.
Kendal, a fourth-year Hamilton Grammar student, took time off from studying for exams to take part in the competition.

The 15-year-old, from Auchenheath, described the event as “amazing” and said: “It was quite nerve-wracking but it was still a really good experience.
“I had to rehearse all day before it from 10am until 1pm.
“The first round was a t-shirt round. Next it was the ‘rainbow round’ which was a little bit more upbeat and I wore a cocktail dress.
“Then it was the evening wear round, and they asked us some questions.”
Kendal, who wants to be a professional dancer , saw off stiff competition to win the teen category and was also named as Teen Miss Personality.
 

She added: “I had such a good time, it was the best day ever.
“Disneyland is going to be amazing, but I have a lot of work to do before I get there.”
Kendal’s mum, Wilma Nicol, spoke of her delight for her daughter, saying: “I’m over the moon.
“It’s nice to see her go for and achieve something she believes in.”
Amy Meisak, the winner of the adult category, is no stranger to pageantry .
The 21-year-old, from Hamilton, is the current Miss World Supermodel UK and was a runner-up in the 2014 Miss Earth competition.
Amy was a late entrant into the pageant, applying less than a week before the Scottish heat took place.
She said: “It was actually a last-minute decision to enter.
“I applied on the Sunday night six days before, and I heard back from them on the Thursday saying I had a spot on the Saturday.
“I only really had a day to get myself ready.
“I’m usually a confident person but this time I found it really nerve-wracking.
“It was good fun. All the other girls were friendly and supportive. I think pageant girls might have a reputation for being a bit mean, but they were all really nice.
“I thought it was strange that you had all these girls from all over Scotland and the two girls from here won.
“I’m really, really excited to go to Disneyland Paris. It’s not until next April, but that gives me time to let it all sink in.”
 

Amy is a former broadcast student and is currently training at a Scottish radio station.
She first started competing in pageants because she wanted to build her confidence and thought it would be a good way to learn how to think on her feet.
Amy will also be competing in the Miss Earth Scotland finals in August.
Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

