Property agent GVA James Barr have appointed investment agent Alasdair Ramsay as a senior director.
Ramsay joins the firm from Big Four accountants Deloitte, where he spent 28 years of his career, laterally as a partner and the firm's head of real estate for Scotland and Ireland.
He will join GVA James Barr in September of this year.
GVA James Barr has also announced its chairman, Eric Forgie, has signalled his intention to begin winding down his role within the business after almost 40 years.
“He will initiate a smooth handover and transition of key client accounts with Alasdair and the 120 strong staff based in Glasgow and Edinburgh,” the firm said.
Forgie said: “The past couple of years have marked a transformational period, and a new chapter for this business.
“The strategic merger of James Barr with GVA in 2013 set out our platform for major growth.
“It up-scaled us to the tune of &pound;11 million in annual revenue, making it one of Scotland’s largest and leading real estate advisors.
“As we move into the next phase of growth, I am sure Alasdair’s experience in both corporate and capital markets will make a significant contribution across the business and I look forward to working with him.”
When the handover is complete, Ramsay will join Bilfinger GVA’s senior ranks as one of 10 regional senior directors, each tasked with leading their respective UK offices.
Ramsay will work alongside Keith Aitken, who heads the GVA James Barr business in Scotland and is regional senior director of the Edinburgh office.
Rob Bould, chief executive of parent company Bilfinger GVA, said: “Alasdair joins at a hugely exciting time as we look to build on our recent merger and fulfil our objective to compete at the top table with our largest competitors for the markets most prized mandates.
“More specifically I look forward to working with Alasdair, alongside our Scotland head, to broaden and strengthen our Glasgow and wider Scotland teams to complement our UK and overseas offer.”
London-based GVA acquired Glasgow-based property consultants James Barr in 2013 and trades as GVA James Barr in Scotland.
GVA was subsequently sold in 2014 to German engineering and real estate conglomerate, Bilfinger to form Bilfinger GVA.
