CATHCART CASTLE isn’t in Cathcart and doesn’t have a castle. It isn’t by the sea either but no one seems to have told the links-style winds that.
The course’s standard scratch is just 69 and features six par threes – but it isn’t a skoosh.
It’s a track that, by rights, should have a paddling of mallards floating down the fairways such has been the volume of wet stuff but in reality it’s as dry as Jack Dee’s wit.
Yes, ladies and gentlemen, Cathcart Castle doesn’t do exactly what it says on the tin cup. But therein lies its beauty.
It’s quirky, it’s perky but it ain’t no turkey. Take the start of the course…
 

First up is a rather innocuous par three, followed by an even more straightforward par four where you can drive the green if you’re a big hitter.
So two holes down, you’re already shaping up well and then bang!
The third is Cathcart’s signature hole. A 558-yard par 5 that features a tee on top of the course’s tallest hill, a dogleg right and two burns.
Feeling brave? Cut the corner, ignore the OB and let the big dawg eat.
Not that hungry? Then steer clear of the OB and keep well left. But beware as danger also lurks there in the form of trees.
Strategy is needed for the hole and with any luck you’ll have dodged a bullet if you can card a five.
 

The third hole is by no means the only card destroyer throughout this solid test of a course, however.
Let’s examine the par-four 10th, for example. It’s the toughest hole and can chew you up before spitting you out again. Four hundred and forty-five yards long, OB on the right, uphill, dogleg right and a raised green and you’ll need to be either a huge hitter and/or low handicapper to have any chance of enjoying regulation golf. So, I guess that’s me out on both counts.
One ridiculously long back swing later and, swoosh, my driver head ended up buried in the earth and the divot (approximately the size of an American state) flew into the air and went more than a lob wedge further than the ball.
After a number of swings – and divots – later, I trudged off the green with a double-bogey six.
Now, what you might just term “incredibly tough holes” are few and far between on this Clarkston course.
 

But the fact that there are 10 holes which feature at least one burn, tight corners and fairways which are rarely flat, makes this layout a tricky, yet still a thoroughly enjoyable, customer.
The greens are immaculate, the views are stunning and it’s an all-round great day out.
Oh, by the way, the pro shop is worth a nosey. It’s well-stocked with designer golf gear such as Galvin Green and is also the PowaKaddy service centre for the whole of Glasgow.
Yep, we’ll be back all right ... so long as the green keeper can forgive me for the excavation I carried out on his 10th tee.
FACTFILE
Cathcart Castle are offering new members great deals right now, such as no joining fee.
Just phone the secretary on 0141 6389449. Alternatively, you can find the website HERE.
Mearns RoadClarkstonGlasgow G76 7YLScotland

