“WITHOUT punters, there would be no prostitutes” – these are the words of a woman who survived prostitution.
She was speaking about supply and demand at the Unite trade union conference.
Take away the demand and you save millions of women from exploitation, abuse and violence.
This is why I support the End Prostitution Now campaign launched in Scotland this week.
It aims to criminalise the purchase of sex but at the same time decriminalise and help victims. This is a reversal of the law as it currently stands.
Northern Ireland recently followed Norway and Sweden in ending demand for paid sex and the Republic of Ireland will soon follow.
 

Ruhama – the Dublin charity who have changed attitudes across the Irish Sea – said: “Prostitution is rarely a freely entered choice and needs to be set against a background of abuse, poverty, low self-esteem, debt and few, if any, other survival options.”
Some suggest that “sex work” is a legitimate choice. To them I ask, “Would it be a legitimate choice for your daughter or sister?”
Some argue that tolerance of prostitution is the best way to keep women safe. But the world’s “oldest profession” is the world’s most dangerous.
Statistics from the US shows that prostitutes are 40 per cent more like to be murdered than other women.
An international health study across nine countries – including Germany, Canada and the US – found that those working in the sex trade suffered similar levels of post-traumatic stress disorder as war veterans and victims of torture.
 

The murder of Emma Caldwell 10 years ago reminded us that eight women were killed between 1991 and 2005 while working as street prostitutes in Glasgow.
It’s not just girls who work the streets who are at risk. Luciana Maurer was stabbed 44 times after she was sent to the home of Steven Mathieson in Falkirk. He is now serving 22 years for her murder.
Mathieson had “booked” her for sex using a telephone service and raped another two girls from the same agency beside Luciana’s body.
Those who support the status quo claim criminalising demand would “push prostitution underground.” But it is already underground and illegal – just not for the customers. Police could easily enforce an end demand law – if punters can use these websites and phone lines then so can the authorities – to shut them down.
Action is overdue and the number of men paying for sex in our country has risen sharply. This increased demand feeds exploitation and trafficking, and there will always be unscrupulous people from the world of organised crime keen to profit from such “market opportunities”.
 

It is these criminals who are most opposed to changing the law.
But the tide is turning. Buying sex has been illegal in Norway and Sweden for several years and the ban is working.
A government evaluation of the 2009 law in Norway said the law had reduced, “The profit from human trafficking”.
And profit is what it’s all about – profit from the misery and vulnerability of others.
Forget Pretty Woman, the film in which Julia Roberts gets lucky with a rich punter. The real-life version is pretty ugly for all concerned.
Visit the End Prostitution Now campaign's Facebook page here.
Try our quick news quiz below:

