A SCOTS teen was among holidaymakers defying a new street drinking ban during debauched scenes in the Spanish resort of Magaluf.
Hannah MacDonald said she planned to “get f****** mortal and just love life” despite the authorities cracking down on drunken tourists.
The 19-year-old from Perth added: “We’re not here to worry about drinking on the street, I do enough of that in Scotland.”
 

Strict rules went into force at midnight , including a ban on street boozing between 10pm and 8am and restrictions on the Majorcan town’s notorious bar crawls.
They come after a teenager from Northern Ireland sparked a furore last summer by performing sex acts on 24 men on a crawl.
 
 
Some bars on the Punta Ballena strip boasted signs saying “No alcohol permitted in the street” and “Drink with moderation”.

But revellers seemed nonplussed with many spilling out of pubs with drinks in hand, while scuffles broke out as cops tried to comtrol youths chanting football songs.
Among the holidaymakers was mental health nurse Hannah, who said: “We’re here for a reason, we’re here to get f****** mortal and just love life.
“Fine me, do whatever you want, I’m going to get mortal on the street and I don’t care.”

Asked why she’d come to Magaluf for the first time, she said: “Jeremy Kyle came here last year so I’m following Jezza, ken what I mean?”
On her Facebook page, the teen boasted about early morning drinking at Edinburgh Airport before catching her flight out on Sunday.
Hannah wrote: “One vodka down already it’s only 7am.”
The teen told how she was going with Perth pal Hayley Clark after booking up in March.

Fun-loving Hannah, who works at the city’s Murray Royal Hospital, often shares updates on her drinking antics on social media.
Last month she posted on Facebook: “It wasn’t acceptable for me to be so drunk last night.”
A week earlier she offered tips on dealing with a heavy session. She wrote: “If you feel really badly drunk lie in bed and stick your foot out of the bed. Dunno why I feel sober then but it works. Trust me.”
On February 15 she said “Valentine’s Day gies me the boke. I prefer voddie.”

After booking the trip, the former Perth Academy pupil, who left school in 2012 to study music at Perth College, wrote: “Dunno how me and Hayley Clark are gonna cope. Yolo (you only live once).”
But her nightlife doesn’t always seem so upbeat. In March she posted: “Really can’t cope with life right now why am I in loft (a nightclub) on a Sunday. My drinking is getting out of hand.”
The new rules in Magaluf say bar crawls must be accompanied by a company rep and accredited security staff, while reps must have first aid training.
All crawls must give seven days notice and numbers are limited to 20.

Business owners on the strip complain they are a “token gesture” to clean up the resort’s image.
Bar owner Juan Pedro Leon, 56, said: “It’s still early in the season, but if the police do take a heavy-handed approach that is going to put people off coming here.”
Another bar owner said: “Nothing is going to change until we get rid of the ‘all included’ culture and bring in a different type of tourist.
“They’re giving these kids rocket fuel at knocked down prices, so it’s no surprise that there’s trouble.”
 Try your hand at our news quiz 

