YET another shocking image of drug addiction in plain view on Scotland’s streets was sent to the Record yesterday.
The picture shows a  woman sleeping on the ground in a children’s playpark at Green Street in Glasgow’s east end.
A concerned resident who took the photograph said  drug taking paraphernalia including a syringe lay scattered by the unconscious woman’s side.
It is yet another sad reminder of Scotland’s failed war on addiction.
And it followed pictures we published yesterday showing an addict unconscious with a needle in his hand on waste ground close to a busy supermarket and housing estate.
The area, close to a Morrisons supermarket in the Gallowgate, Glasgow, was scattered with dozens of needles.
 

We also reminded readers of an image we published last year of two addicts lying unconscious in a Dundee close, their trousers down and the woman clutching a needle.
At the weekend, shocking pictures emerged of an addict injecting heroin in a tent close to Aberdeen’s historic Union Terrace Gardens.
The images are a damning indictment of the UK government's failed War on Drugs.


And yesterday a world authority on addiction yesterday dismissed UK drug policy as “a complete mess” – and backed the Record’s call for a radical rethink.
Professor David Nutt wants a Royal Commission to carry out a complete overhaul of current laws and attitudes.
He spoke out the day after we published pictures of an addict collapsed on waste ground close to Glasgow city centre with a syringe in his hand – a shocking symbol of Scotland’s failing drugs policy.
 

Nutt, who is professor of neuropsychopharmacology at Imperial College London and president of the European Brain Council said he “fully agreed” with the Record’s demands for a radical new solution.
He explained: “Current policy is fundamentally flawed and doing more harm than good.
“We need a proper rethink via a Royal Commission to bring to the UK evidence of effective practice from other more enlightened countries.
“We have known we have been getting this wrong for 20 years. The Government know this, but have been incapable of getting it sorted out.
“Currently there are anomalies and inconsistencies and probably people are being harmed as a result of that.
“We are in a complete mess with this and someone needs to sit down with a big piece of paper, start from the beginning, and think what are we trying to achieve – which is hopefully to reduce harm.”
Nutt was chair of the UK’s advisory committee on the misuse of drugs until 2009, when he was sacked after clashing with then home secretary Alan Johnson over his decision to toughen the law on cannabis.
 

The professor – whose book Drugs: Without The Hot Air won the Transmission Prize for Communicating Science last year – accused ministers of “devaluing and distorting” the scientific evidence by their decision to reclassify cannabis from class C to class B.
During his time at ACMD, he was also criticised for stating that ecstasy was statistically no more dangerous than an addiction to horse-riding.
He believes drugs should be classified according to the scientific evidence of the harm they cause and that addicts should be given proper treatment as a priority.
In his ranking, alcohol is the fifth most dangerous drug behind heroin, cocaine, barbiturates and methadone. Tobacco ranks ninth, ahead of cannabis, LSD and ecstasy.
He added: “What you do is look around the world to where they are doing this better than us – Portugal, the Netherlands, Sweden. Just about everyone is doing better than us.
“We are uniquely disadvantaged by our current rules because politicians fail to act on clear evidence-based research.
 

“The Scottish Government have actually been very good at listening to research when it comes to their attitude to alcohol and attempt to introduce a minimum price.
“The opportunity is there for the Scottish Government to lead the UK by devising a proper modern approach to drugs, and really help people.”
Roy Lees, 65, from Johnstone, runs the Strathclyde branch of abstinence-based recovery group Teen Challenge.
He also believes the Government have to look at radical solutions.
He said: “The politicians are worse than useless. The attitude is addicts are criminals and deserve no help other than a life on legal drugs like methadone. We need to start looking sensibly at funding proper recovery programmes rather than trying to criminalise people.”

