A KILLER who stabbed an ex-soldier to death less than an hour after the victim signed up for drug rehab has been jailed for nine years.
Tragic Robbie Morrison, 31, battled heroin abuse after leaving the Army, where he had served in Iraq, and hoped to turn his life around.
But shortly after attending a rehab centre, Robbie was knifed in the leg by thug Kristian Nelson and left with blood “splashing” from a 15cm long wound.
Callous Nelson, 37, was sentenced at the High Court in Edinburgh yesterday.
Lord Glennie told him: “You have an unenviable record, including two offences of assault to injury or severe injury and one assault with a hammer. This time it was a knife and the consequences were fatal.”
Nelson last month admitted a reduced charge of culpable homicide having originally faced a murder rap.
Co-accused Colin Craig, 46, was also charged with murder but his plea to assault was accepted by prosecutors.
The judge deferred sentence on him for a year.
The court previously heard how police tracked a 300-metre trail of Robbie’s blood to Nelson’s home in Dumbryden Gardens in the city’s Wester Hailes.
 

Earlier, a woman had found stricken Robbie on a footpath, still conscious with blood pouring from his injury.
The dad of a four-year-old daughter had managed to flee last August’s attack next to Nelson’s house before collapsing.
Earlier, Robbie told his mum Lynn, 60, in their Oxgangs home that he was going to a drug rehab service in Wester Hailes.
He was interviewed there at 3.30pm and referred for further support.
But some time before 4.20pm, Robbie was attacked. He suffered a ruptured vein in his left thigh and underwent surgery but died three days later.
No one knows why Nelson – who was on heroin substitute methadone at the time of the killing – did it but there are suggestions Robbie was attacked because he owed another person money.
Detective Chief Inspector Gary Cunningham, of the Major Investigation Team, said last night: “Kristian Nelson showed a callous disregard for human life and I hope this sentencing will provide the family and friends of Mr Morrison with some sense of closure.”
Try our quick news quiz below:

