AN illegal immigrant who arranged a sham marriage in a bid to stay in the country was jailed for six months today.
Indian Gurwinder Wairach, 25, was stopped at the altar as he tried to wed Scots teenager Sheryl Kyle.
The marriage only didn't go ahead when 19-year-old Sheryl's mum, Joan McCreadie, turned up at Ayr registry office as her daughter was about to tie the knot, and alerted authorities.
Immigration officers quizzed the pair, and found that Wairach knew practically nothing about his bride-to-be, and couldn't tell them even basic details about her including her parents' names, or what school she went to.
Sheryl told his trial last month that she only agreed after being constantly pestered by Wairach for months.
The 25-year-old had entered the UK on a student visa, but then overstayed his welcome by failing to leave when his visa expired.
Instead of returning to his native India, he moved to Ayr where he tried to force the teen into marrying him - which would allow him to stay legally in the country.
Today, at Ayr Sheriff Court, defence agent Ian Gillies pleaded for leniency, claiming that Wairach was only still here because the Crown Office had confiscated his client's passport, preventing him from returning to his homeland.
Gillies said: &quot;He is a young man who wants to put this behind him. He has been unable to claim benefits while in Scotland, and has had to rely on family here and in India.
&quot;His position is that he can't wait to put this nightmare behind him. Immigration will act after receiving a report from the Crown, and he will be deported.
&quot;I would ask your Lordship to deal with this in a way that would allow Mr Wairach to return home.&quot;
Gillies also asked the Sheriff to defer sentence for a month, and claimed his client would leave the country within two weeks of being given his passport back from the Crown Office.
But Sheriff Montgomery branded the case a &quot;serious offence&quot;, and jailed him.
He added: &quot;Mr Wairach has been convicted after trial of trying to enter a sham marriage.
 &quot;I accept he was not the prime mover behind this failed attempt, but at the very least he was compliant.
&quot;This is a serious offence. Such behavior undermines this country's immigration laws, and has an effect on the institution of marriage.
&quot;In my view there is no alternative to a custodial sentence, and I sentence you to six months imprisonment.&quot;
Wairach, who was dressed casually in jeans and a navy sports top, was then led from the dock to begin his sentence.
He will now be deported after he serves his sentence.
His co-accused, Kamal Kapil, who is also charged with kidnapping a woman at an Ayr hotel, is on the run, and a warrant has been previously issued for his arrest.

