IT is now clear to those of us who love football that the organisation we trusted to protect and nurture the great game has utterly failed us.
The wounded beast that is FIFA, and all the parasites who have become fat feasting from its corrupt, bloated body now need shown the door once and for all.
A game already reeling from revelations of extraordinary avarice no doubt faces more damaging disclosures in the coming months and years through the US courts.
But while those who arrogantly lined their pockets now squirm and slide in an effort to save their own skins, fans of the beautiful game have a more pressing question: Who do we trust to run things from here on in?
Speaking in today’s paper, investigative journalist Andrew Jennings is clear and passionate on that point. The Scot who brought down Sepp Blatter believes that only the fans – and he mentions Scotland’s fans in particular – can purify and reclaim our game.
Scotland is already leading the way. Fans across our country have become fed up of the way their clubs are being run by the stuffed shirts and are taking control themselves.

We are 100 per cent behind Jennings’s belief that a union of fans around the world can finally put the blazers in their place.
The men in suits have disregarded common sense and ignored their customers for too long, and all for their personal gain.
We believe the only way to make the leeches sit up and listen is to hit them where it hurts – in the pocket.
It is the sponsors who hold the whip hand, so it is here where supporters can bring the most pressure to bear to force change.
By talking with our feet and forcing them to demand more transparency from those leading our game, we can swing the pendulum of undue influence back to the supporters.
Make no mistake, it won’t be a quick fix – but together we can make it happen.
And when it does, as Jennings puts it, “we can tell FIFA to go and stick their blazers where the sun don’t shine”.
 Hol about safety 
 

The youth rebellion against a crackdown on drunken antics in Magaluf is understandable.
After all, where can you party properly if it’s not in the notorious Majorcan resort city?
Teenagers and young adults who’ve saved up for their summer breaks are entitled to have their playtime. But for years there has been a cynical commercial exploitation of the less wordly-wise, with little heed given to their dignity – or welfare.
We’ve witnessed teens being seduced by cheap alcohol promotions – and then by older predators. There’s the booze-fuelled casualty count which can end in tragedy.
Calming down the pub crawl promos and restricting public drinking are necessary for safety’s sake. The measures are supported by locals, bar owners and tour operators – the last people who want to kill fun in the sun.
They’re merely aiming to strike a balance between protecting hedonism and preventing heartache.

