OLD soldier Geordie Rhodick almost blew a million quid when he tossed his EuroMillions ticket in the bucket.
Geordie, 71, checked his numbers and realised he’d drawn a blank in the main draw but he forgot to look at his Millionaire Maker raffle code.
Fortunately for him, his wife Betty fished the ticket out of the recycling bin and took it to the local shop to be checked.
And she was stunned to be told to sit down before the shopkeeper broke the news that the ticket was worth &pound;1million.
Now the big-hearted couple from Lochgilphead in Argyll plan to treat their family to a share of their good fortune.
Betty, 63, said yesterday she had “no idea” why she saved the ticket but Geordie had just been to the bank and told her he was “skint”.
She took it to RS McColls in Lochgilphead, where Geordie had bought it. She said: “When the girl put the ticket through the machine, she said ’Oh, I can’t pay this out here. It’s a substantial win.’
“The manager checked the numbers and I could see him starting to shake. He said I needed to come up the back and have a seat.”
Despite his seven-figure windfall, Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders veteran Geordie didn’t start the celebrations immediately. Instead, he spent two days at Lochgilphead Coop selling raffle tickets for the Armed Forces Day committee he chairs.
Betty’s first move was to quit her job as a carer with Enable Scotland, which she had held for 14 years.
She said: “I’m thrilled, just cock-a-hoop. Geordie retired last year and kept saying I should pack it in but I was only doing 16 hours a week. I’ve put my resignation in – I told them I was hanging up my plastic gloves.”
“We’re going to take my mum Margaret away for a surprise trip because she’s been so good to us.”
 

Geordie was in the Army from 1967 to 1981 and met Betty, from Huntly, Aberdeenshire, in Ballater when he was on guard duty at Balmoral.
He then worked as a domestic supervisor at Argyll and Bute Hospital in Lochgilphead.
National lottery chiefs trying to track down the winner of a &pound;3million prize, used Blair Drummond Safari Park in a bid to jog the mystery winner's memory.

The couple are looking forward to a luxury trip to London and plan to look after their six grandchildren.
They also plan to move out of their veterans’ house and buy a new home in the town.
The couple’s eldest grandchild, Stacy Rhodick, 21, said: “They have done so much for everybody, in their own family and in the community. They really deserve this.”
Try our news quiz below 

