SURGEONS at one of Scotland’s biggest hospitals are being banned from treating critically ill patients so hospital managers can meet waiting time targets, a whistleblower has claimed.
The surgeon at Ninewells Hospital in Dundee claims patients with potentially life threatening conditions are being prevented from receiving urgent care until they are discharged from the Accident and Emergency department.
This gives the appearance that waiting times in A and E are low - but it takes longer for patients to be treated.
For several years, NHS Tayside has boasted the lowest Accident and Emergency waits in Scotland, with 99% of patients treated in four hours.
But the whistleblower told BBC Scotland the hospital is massaging the figures.
The doctor said: “On paper, it would seem that the patient was in the A&amp;E department for a short time.
“The surgical service is often actively barred from assessing sometimes critically ill patients in A&amp;E, as this would increase the time spent by the patient in A&amp;E.
“Patients presenting to A&amp;E with abdominal pain - the bulk of surgical patients - are not treated there in any way.
 

“They are quickly seen by a junior doctor, who then discusses the case with a consultant.
“The patient is then referred to the surgical ward where actual assessment, investigations and treatment takes place.”
Scottish health minister Shona Robison has been informed of the claims and has urged other whistleblowers to come forward.
It is claimed surgical specialists are not allowed to order blood or imaging tests on the patient in the emergency department, as they would normally do, in case this causes delays.
This is despite the fact that the department which carries out the imaging tests is next to A&amp;E, and patients often have to be transported back again.
Across Scotland, the NHS is still not meeting the Scottish government’s interim target for 95% of people to be treated and discharged within four hours. The last figures, published on Tuesday, suggested that 93% of people were seen and treated within this time frame.

Staff at NHS Tayside raised the manipulation of waiting time figures with the General Medical Council (GMC) last year.
The GMC is carrying out visits to hospitals following a rise in the number of trainee doctors reporting bullying or undermining.
A report of a visit to Ninewells in October stated: “We heard from all groups that we met that there may be issues with interaction with other departments such as emergency medicine.
&quot;We also heard that doctors in training feel unable to attend the Emergency Medicine department unless they are explicitly asked to do so by staff in that department.
“Additionally when they do attend we heard examples of when they were undermined and/or bullied.”
It was raised again earlier this year, this time in a report on the quality of surgical training at the hospital by NHS Education.
An NHS Tayside spokeswoman said patient safety is its “overriding priority”.
 

The spokeswoman claimed tests and treatment are carried out within the emergency department, and said: “Waiting time targets do not form any part of our primary consideration.”
Health Secretary Shona Robison said: “We have been in contact with NHS Tayside on this issue and have been assured by the board that the first priority in A&amp;E is always the safe and effective treatment of the patient.
“Our guidance makes clear this should always be the case where targets are set and the four-hour A&amp;E target is no different. Indeed the key driver of this target is to ensure patients receive safe, effective care as quickly as possible and are not subjected to long waits.”
Ms Robison added: “There is absolutely no place for bullying in our NHS and we are completely committed to a culture of openness where staff of any level can raise concerns.
“On that basis, staff working at NHS Tayside should feel able to bring forward issues to management at the health board.
“I would encourage anyone with concerns to raise them in line with advice provided to all staff and allow the issues to be thoroughly investigated.”
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

