SCOTTISH UFC superstar Robert Whiteford says he feels more at peace inside the Octagon than he does sitting relaxing in front of the TV at home. 
With a massive fight on the July 18 UFC Glasgow card against Paul Redmond, the Fauldhouse Featherweight plans on showing everyone just how comfortable he is.
He said: &quot;I'm laid back in the cage. I joke that it's down to me having a crazy girlfriend. After that, what can go wrong in the cage? 
&quot;There's no bills, no nagging, no chaps at the door, the phone doesn't ring. It's my peace and quiet and 15 minutes to myself. It just so happens that there are fists flying at the time.&quot;
&quot;I could be fighting at a local town hall in Glasgow and feel at home. There's no difference. To me, if you go swimming, you get wet. It's the same with fighting, it doesn't matter where I do it, it doesn't affect the result. I want another W in the win column.&quot;
One of the pioneers of mixed martial arts in Scotland, 32-year-old Whiteford was the first Scottish fighter to both be signed by and win in the UFC. 
After training out in the Florida sunshine with American Top Team he says Redmond will be lucky to last beyond the first round and that his coaches are having to work hard to reign him in.
&quot;It's like fighter heaven here in Florida. The facilities are unprecedented. I'm struggling to get to sleep at night just thinking about the fight in Glasgow.
&quot;If it were up to me, me and my opponents would need to take out life insurance. It wouldn't be a good night for him. But my coaches bring me back to reality and I don't care as long as I win. They always have a gameplan.
&quot;I'm getting better all the time. I'm planning on getting rid of this guy early in the first round. He doesn't take a backwards step so it'll be exciting. He'll be standing with me until he gets cracked. Then we'll see if he wants to go for one of his trademark toe holds.&quot;
Fighting in Scotland for the first time in over two years, Whiteford admits he can't wait to sample the best atmosphere he'll have experienced in his career. He's proud that Scots are a little crazy.
He said: &quot;It will be impossible to have 11,000 Scottish fans packed inside The Hydro and not be special. It'll be an explosive night. Nothing will be normal in the crowd or inside the cage - fireworks everywhere.
&quot;I'm not here to mess around and Scotland isn't here to make up the numbers in MMA. I'm in my prime and couldn't have set the stage better. When I fight, I don't do it for the money. I love it. The UFC is full of sharks and there's a new one at every turn. I just take one fight at a time and focus on winning that.&quot;&quot;
If all goes to plan and the fight ends early, there will be no crazy celebration. Instead, Whiteford would rather kick back with his girlfriend and pet cat at home. He said: &quot;I'm not a big party guy, I'm not that young anymore. 
&quot;I'm sure there will be an afterparty. But I just like to relax with my cat. I don't have a big family, so my friends are my family. I just fight my own fight and have fun and appreciate their support afterwards.&quot;


