SCOTLAND'S Chief Medical Officer is to investigate claims of manipulation of waiting times and bullying at one of the country's biggest hospitals.
Health Secretary Shona Robison is sending in Dr Aileen Keel to Dundee's Ninewells Hospital on Monday following allegations that surgical teams were prevented from seeing patients to manipulate A&amp;E waiting-time figures.
A whistleblower told the BBC the teams were being bullied and prevented from seeing potentially seriously-ill patients, which could put them at risk.
During a health debate at Holyrood, Labour's Jenny Marra called for an immediate investigation into the allegations.
The whistleblower's claims come after NHS Tayside staff raised the alleged manipulation of waiting-time figures with the General Medical Council (GMC) last year.
The GMC is carrying out visits to hospitals following an increase in the number of trainee doctors reporting bullying.
Robison said the GMC had been made aware of bullying claims at the hospital last year and looked into them in detail.
It concluded that there was &quot;no evidence that there was a culture of undermining and bullying in either the general surgery, the trauma or orthopedic units&quot;.
She added: &quot;However, when any concerns are raised with me I always want to make sure that we have asked all of the questions and that we have seen for ourselves, so that is why I have asked the Chief Medical Officer to visit Ninewells on Monday and to see for herself, to investigate, to ask questions and speak to staff and report back to me.
&quot;I think we have to be very careful here in making sure that one of our best-performing emergency departments in the country is not undermined.
&quot;It is important to put on record that patient safety is not affected by any of these concerns because I think that patient safety is absolutely the key to what they do in that fantastic hospital.&quot;
The NHS is still failing to meet the Scottish Government's interim A&amp;E target for 95 per cent of people to be treated and discharged within four hours.

NHS Tayside has recorded some of the lowest A&amp;E waiting times in Scotland, with 99.1 per cent of people treated and discharged within four hours, according to this week's figures.
But an unnamed whistleblower - a doctor at Ninewellsl - alleges that patients were not allowed to be assessed by surgeons until they are moved across to the surgical department, so that the patient can be recorded as having been discharged from A&amp;E.
Robison acknowledged that it was right to listen to concerns raised by NHS staff but she added: &quot;But it doesn't mean that it (a whistleblower claim) is always correct and it should always be considered to be correct.
&quot;It is important that we get to the bottom of it but there is, of course, an alternative view that actually Ninewells emergency department is a good, well-operating department that takes patient safety very seriously indeed and works very well.
&quot;What I want to make sure is that those concerns raised are investigated and those issues that the GMC says have been addressed, have been addressed.&quot;
Meanhwile, NHS Tayside medical director Dr Alan Cook has waded into the row and rubbished the whistleblower's claims a bid to meet targets is driving the way patients are treated on admission to A&amp;E at Ninewells.
Dr Cook said: &quot;This clinical model has been in place since 1998 which significantly pre-dates any waiting-times targets for accident &amp; emergency that were introduced in 2004.
&quot;Therefore, there is absolutely no truth in the claim that surgical teams are prevented from assessing patients in the emergency department to have a positive effect on waiting times.&quot;
Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

