BLUR may be used to headlining London’s Hyde Park and festivals like Glastonbury and T in the Park these days, but it was a much more intimate affair as the band played the latest of their smaller dates.
The legendary Britpop band – who performed to just 250 people in Wolverhampton earlier this week to raise money for an arts centre – arrived in Glasgow for their show at the Barrowlands having sparked a search for a comic book hidden in the city.
Hong Kong comic artist Kongkee created a comic titled Travel To Hong Kong With Blur had been placed in a secret location in the city to be found by a fan who would get the chance to win a limited edition, signed print taken from the original comic artwork.
But as well as the treasure hunt there were some pop gems in evidence as Blur mixed their greatest hits and old favourites with material from their first album in 12 years, called The Magic Whip.
 

The chimes of an ice cream van rang out to herald the band’s arrival onstage and before long fans were singing along to the opening song Go Out and Lonesome Street.
&quot;You've got a good spirit up here at the moment, haven't you,&quot; Damon told the crowd.
Frontman Damon Albarn doused the audience with bottled water as he, guitarist Graham Coxon, bassist Alex James and drummer Dave Rowntree - plus four backing vocalists, a brass section and percussionist - contributed to some of the heavier new tracks that sandwiched the anthems.
Having begun the adventure that led to their latest album with sessions in Hong Kong it was fitting that Albarn singled out a fan who had come a long way to see her idols.
 

&quot;It says that you're from Hong Kong,&quot; Damon said, referring to the message on her card. &quot;How do you like it in Glasgow?&quot;
&quot;Rough,&quot; she replied to audience laughter.
A highlight was Coffee &amp; TV, giving the audience a chance to test their tonsils before the downbeat I Thought I Was A Spaceman.
&quot;We're still trying to work out how to fit everything in,&quot; Albarn apologised more than halfway through before upping the tempo again and snarling at the crowd like a devil dog with an owner on an ASBO.
A rousing crowd chorus of &quot;Here we f***ing go preceded Beetlebum, Tender and Parklife back to back, while To The End and ending their regular set with Song 2 wasn't too shabby either.
 Try our quick entertainment quiz below: 

