Big four accountants KPMG have announced a new partner and three new director promotions across its Scottish operation.
Andy Masters, who joined KPMG in 2010 and is the firm's head of savings and wealth, has been promoted to partner.
The firm said: “Andy leads KPMG’s thinking on the future of long term savings and wealth in the UK, with a particular focus right now on how financial services organisations transform to be customer centric and make the most of digital solutions to do this,”.
George Scott, who leads a team of information protection and business resilience specialists, has been promoted to director.
Scott, a former head of information security at Tesco Bank, joined KPMG in 2011.
KPMG has also promoted tax specialist Ross Stupart to tax director in Enterprise.
KPMG said Stupart was “instrumental in creating a three-year alliance between KPMG, Entrepreneurial Spark and RBS to deliver business advice and support to thousands of entrepreneurs across Edinburgh, Glasgow and Ayrshire”.
Also promoted to director is Alistair McAlinden, who joined KPMG in Glasgow as an audit trainee in 2001 and has been with the restructuring team for the last decade.
His promotion will see him move to KPMG's Edinburgh office.
McAlinden works alongside Blair Nimmo, KPMG's head of restructuring in Scotland, and acts as engagement leader on both formal insolvency cases and advisory projects.
Commenting on the promotions, Craig Anderson, senior partner for KPMG in Scotland, said:
“The societal impacts of a poorly saved generation is a major theme for KPMG and one which Andy Masters is at the heart of.
“His promotion to partner illustrates the investment being made by KPMG to work with our clients and governmental bodies across the UK in tackling the challenges associated with this.
“The new digital landscape has elevated cyber security to a board level agenda item and the promotion of George Scott to director, together with our continued investment in that area, is reflective of its significance.
“Director appointments for Alistair McAlinden, who has been an integral part of our restructuring team for more than a decade, and Ross Stupart, a key figure in the development of our Enterprise offering, further illustrates the significant investment being made in these particular areas of our business in Scotland.”
