 I'M watching the film “ Honey I Shrunk the Kids ” with a whole new appreciation. 
As a child watching this film was getting involved in a farcical romp with very, very small children and a giant Oreo cookie. Now it’s science. And as ridiculously fantastical as this flick was, I am finding myself absolutely hooked on anything involving fun science-type things - particularly if they involve lasers.
Glasgow has had a lot to offer its residents recently. The Gibson Street Gala brought real rustic beauty to us on a rather soggy day, while the West End Festival parade showcased some truly stunning colours, music, dance and food from all corners of the world.
Right now, though, there is something going on that brings all new joy to my social life. This month welcomes the Glasgow Science Festival.
But what is joy? Is it the kiss of a summer’s zephyr? The breaking of a wave on shore? Heaps of gin? It’s gin.
The first event to kick off the Glasgow Science Festival was hosted by Glasgow University’s Polyomics department and involved several fun and imaginative ways of breaking down the key components of gin, presenting them to a relatively fresh-faced audience of eager gin drinkers.
Several gin distillery companies took part and, with the help of a few talented cocktail makers, created exciting and fun experiments with every course of the meal.
The first of the fascinating gin nibbles was an iced gin and beetroot cone. Shortly after enjoying this unusual aperitif we were instructed to carry out the first of several experiments laid out on our tables. All of these experiments involved taste, touch and smell.
We had the opportunity to create our own gin flavour, we also found out how gin is distilled and learned all about the &quot;Super Tasters&quot;- I am very proud to be one myself.
As well as the experiments we were treated to tutorials, music, a three-course meal and even a gin-flavoured lemon meringue cocktail to finish the evening off.
This night was imaginative and fun - and surprisingly educational. The group running the evening were enthusiastic and genuinely fun to be around.
There are many more of these events happening as part of Glasgow Science Festival, not all involving gin, of course. I highly recommend going along to a few.
Whether it’s Chemistry, Physics or Biology this is the month to get stuck into some seriously fun science. I’m off to experiment with chocolate and popping candy.
