A SCOTTISH tourist was rushed to hospital after suffering head injuries in am15ft fall from a hotel balcony in Magaluf hours after a crackdown on bad behaviour by holidaymakers.
Jenna McAlpine, 21, suffered head injuries and was monitored overnight at the A&amp;E department of Son Espases Hospital near the Majorcan capital Palma.
She remained under observation this morning). Her condition was described as &quot;stable.&quot;
Brunette Jenna, from Dunfermline, who only arrived in Majorca the day of her accident, was attended by paramedics after falling from the Club B Hotel in the centre of Magaluf around 7pm yesterday.
The hotel, which describes itself as ideal for groups of &quot;fun-loving holidaymakers aged under 30&quot;, declined to comment.
The incident happened hours after new laws designed to crack down on bad behaviour by British tourists were brought in.
Jenna took to Twitter hours before jetting from Dunfermline to write: &quot;Oh holy Christ am excited. Maga in the morning.&quot;
She wrote on her Facebook page last Friday: &quot;No better feeling than finishing up at work for the weekend....Especially when you go to Maga on Tuesday.&quot;
She later complained about the cost of holiday shopping, telling friends:”&quot;Spent a ridiculous amount on ugly bikinis as I've left holiday shopping so last minute but suppose it doesn't really matter.
&quot;Even if I was wearing the nicest bikini ever I'd still look a fat ride. Wooo yeah!&quot;
Police sources said Jenna's fall was still being investigated but they believed she may have been trying to climb from one balcony to another when she lost her balance.
Tourists caught jumping from hotel balconies into swimming pools - a practice known locally as balconing - will be fined EUROS 1,500 (&pound;1,065) under the new regulations approved by local councillors last month.
Hotels usually take action against holidaymakers caught climbing between balconies.
A ban on night-time street drinking and changes to controversial pub crawls have also been introduced in Magaluf.
Hordes of British holidaymakers have been spotted over the past 48 hours flouting the new laws, which came into effect at midnight on Tuesday.

Mental health nurse Hannah MacDonald, 19, from Perth, said she planned to “get f&middot;&middot;&middot;&middot;&middot; mortal and just love life” despite the crackdown.
She added while partying in Magaluf: “We’re not here to worry about drinking on the street, I do enough of that in Scotland.”
The new rules came into force after a teenager from Northern Ireland sparked a furore last summer by performing sex acts on 24 men on a bar crawl.
Video footage of the incident went viral.
The council has said fines for drinking on the streets will not be levied straightaway and tourists breaching the rules will be advised rather than punished as part of a moratorium which is expected to last for several weeks.
Local town hall officials today appeared to pass the buck on implementing key new regulations to the incoming council.
Local elections took place last month and new councillors will not be sworn in until the weekend.
A new mayor will take charge and many of the unelected civil servants will also be replaced.
The new regulations were approved by councillors from all parties last month following talks with local police and businesses.
A council spokesman, reacting to questions about why it seemed to be business as normal in Magaluf despite the by-law changes, said: “The outgoing municipal government, to guarantee a progressive and ordered implementation of the new regulations, and in the same way as other town halls have done in similar cases, has determined that a period of information about these norms should exist.
“The town hall’s aim is not to raise money in fines but modify certain types of behaviour or activities that we want to correct.”
The council said in a statement local police had been asked to inform tourists they were infringing the new by-laws covering things like street drinking and it was already working with a local hotel association to distribute leaflets advising holidaymakers of the changes.
It added: “The new town council will be constituted on June 13 and a decision on the maintenance, duration and modification of these criteria regarding local police actions after that date will be the job of the incoming council.”

Try today's quick quiz:

