LEGO fanatics Alex Brown and Ross Fenton have attracted global support for their bid to bring their favourite toy store to Dundee.
The school pals are sick of having to travel to Glasgow to visit an official Lego store and think it's only fair that their city gets one too.
They moaned: “There is only one Lego store in the whole of Scotland.
“It is in Glasgow on the west coast, it is very inconvenient for people who live on the east coast.
“Lego is for all ages and both genders. Lego can educate you through building and play. It is also a lot of fun.”
And urging people to sign their petition, the boys declared: “A Lego store in Dundee would amazing.
“Dundee is full of fanatical Lego fans. PLEASE SIGN NOW! Happy building. Thanks A and R.”
So far more than 14,000 have backed the petition which the boys put together with the help of their Grange Primary School teacher Guy Findlay.
Alex said: “There are a lot of people we know who would like a Lego store and we’ve had a lot of support from people on social media.”
Ross added: “It’s really taken off and it’s just been from people talking.”
Alex’s mum Elaine said: “They have emailed Lego so many times and so they decided to start a petition to show just how much support there would be for a shop in Dundee.
“The boys are just real Lego fanatics.
“Glasgow has a store but that’s just too far away for regular visits and the boys would love to see one closer to home to enable them to carry on collecting.”
The pals have visited Legoland in the past and also used the bricks to raise funds for charity by asking people to guess how many were in their constructions.
Bosses at the Danish firm said they were keeping tabs on the petition and a spokesman told them: “I completely agree with you guys, a new brand store in Dundee would definitely be convenient for our Scottish fans.
“I think it’s very cool that you have started a petition to make this happen.”
 To support the boys, visit www.thepetitionsite.com/595/362/099/lego-store-for-dundee 


