A CELEBRITY TV and radio presenter was paid &pound;1320 to chair a poverty conference.
Journalist Lesley Riddoch hosted the South Lanarkshire Council event that discussed ways to address inequality.
 A freedom of information request from our sister paper the Hamilton Advertiser revealed that her fee was the highest paid by the council for a celebrity appearance at any event in the past  five years. 
Scottish Tory MSP Alex Johnstone said yesterday: “It’s so typical of people on that side of the political debate that they would hand-wring for a few hours about poverty – only to take home a king’s ransom in return.
“Many of those looking on thinking the people involved cared would be horrified to see the sums of money exchanged.”
The council’s head of regeneration services, Jim McCaffer, said: “The Tackling Poverty conference is not an annual event and costs vary depending on the programme.
“The 2013 conference was attended by a wide range of people who learned a great deal from the event.
“We currently have no plans to host another conference around this theme.”
Riddoch insisted she attends many events free of charge and only asks for a fee to cover the time she has to take out of work. She said: “I do a lot of pro bono work all over Scotland all the time on issues around housing, poverty, land reform, renewable energy etc.
“Normally it’s for groups with no income so I do all those talks for free and just ask for &pound;20 petrol.
“So it’s unusual and welcome when a council recognises that as a self-employed person, I am taking time off to prepare for events, get to them and chair them.
“Most speakers are already employed and their salary will cover their absence from work.
“I’m very often the only self-employed person at events so I do ask any organisation that can cover a fee to finance my time there.”
Over the past six years, South Lanarkshire Council have paid out &pound;6600 for celebrity hosts and speakers.
Other payments included three fees of &pound;1000 for TV journalist Angus Simpson, who hosted the council’s Pupil Awards Ceremony in 2012, 2013 and 2014.
The council said his fee is paid by sponsors Research Machines.
Executive director of education resources Jim Gilhooly added: “The awards are very popular among the pupils and play an important role in helping inspire them to target their academic and other goals.”
LESLEY Riddoch has been an outspoken commentator on poverty and corporate greed.
“Naked greed has become the main driver in British society and has usurped more civilising values to give the oxygen of publicity to malicious ‘personalities’ like Katie Hopkins.” (April 2015)
“The poor in Scotland – like a mad aunt in the attic – are always with us. Locked away, not spoken about and feared but not heard. A shameful indictment of our communitarian aspirations, evidence of a deep-seated national malaise and a dead weight on economic performance and public health.” (October 2013)
“Not only did David Cameron refuse to cap bankers’ bonuses, the Tories also voted downplans for a bank bonus tax to fund job guarantees for unemployed young people from the ill-gotten gains. We’re all in this together? Don’t make me laugh.“ (January 2014)
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

