SCOTLAND sizzled as a year-high temperature was recorded for the second successive day today.
And the good news is tomorrow is to produce more of the same with some parts of Britain set for temperatures hotter than the Middle East.
The mercury will soar to 28 degrees tomorrow - making the UK hotter than Tel Aviv and parts of Spain.
But forecasters are warning the glorious conditions aren't set to last with a repeat of recent thunderstorms to follow.
Yesterday’s warmest day of the year in Scotland didn't last long as it was exceeded today in Aboyne, Aberdeenshire where the mercury hit 23.3C this afternoon.
Glasgow and Edinburgh also hovered in the low 20s.
 

Tomorrow could see similar temperatures while in England its set to get truly tropical - but with torrential showers included. The Met Office is forecasting temperatures of up to 28 in the South-East and 23 degrees in the North.
That would surpass the 26.7 degrees reached last Friday in Frittenden, Kent.
Met Office forecaster Dan Williams said: “There’s a good chance of Friday being the hottest day of the year so far, with 28C possible, although with some uncertainty due to the timing of showers.”
The Met Office forecast thunderstorms dumping up to 30mm of rain on Friday morning in the South, and up to 50mm in the South-West and West Midlands.
The South-East and East Midlands also face deluges.
The Met Office warned of localised “significant disruption” from flooding, lightning and hail, including flooded roads and falling tree branches. Other forecasters warned of power cuts.
The RAC warned of treacherous driving conditions.
Spokesman Simon Williams said: “Flash flooding is distinctly possible. Drivers should take extreme care as standing water is dangerous due to the risk of aquaplaning - and lightning strikes could leave tree debris on roads.
Met Office forecaster Dan Williams said: “Torrential is the word.
&quot;Where showers hit, they risk surface water flooding causing problems.
“Lightning has the potential to cause disruption. Lightning strikes have a wide variety of impacts including branches falling from trees.
Channel 4 weatherman Liam Dutton said: “Thunder, hail and frequent lightning could cause disruption to transport and power supplies if lightning strikes hit infrastructure.”
The Environment Agency put the South and Midlands on alert for localised “flooding affecting properties and parts of communities as well as disruption to travel.”
The RAC warned of mud and tractors being needed to drag out stranded cars at the Download and Isle of Wight festivals.
Mr Williams said: “The Isle of Wight is at risk of heavy thundery showers on Thursday night and torrential downpours on Friday. Download is at risk on Friday night and Saturday morning.”
Mrs Farrow said: “Big storms are possible at the Isle of Wight Festival.”
RAC spokesman Simon Williams said: “There’s a risk of mud when cars are driven on grassy areas hit by rain.
&quot;Don’t park at the bottom of a hill and ruin your festival weekend by needing to be towed out of mud by a tractor.”
Saturday is due washouts in the Midlands as the Met office forecast temperatures falling to 20C in the South and 14C in the North, with Sunday even cooler at just 16C in the South and 10C in the North a showers ease.
Mr Williams said: “There’s a big change in temperatures from Friday to the weekend as cooler air arrives. It will feel markedly cooler”
 Try today's quick quiz: 

