A TERMINALLY ill dad denied vital cancer treatment yesterday begged the SNP Government to intervene so he can live long enough to see his 11-year-old daughter start secondary school.
Brian Houliston travelled to Edinburgh from his home near Annan to watch as his heartbreaking case was raised at the Scottish Parliament.
The 50-year-old farm manager was given just eight weeks to live and told to go home to die in April 2014 after being diagnosed with cancer of the oesophagus and the liver.
But he paid for a consultation with a Harley Street doctor who recommended a particular course of chemo followed by a process known as selective internal radiation therapy (SIRT).
This treatment is available on the NHS in England but not in Scotland.
The controversy erupted as MSPs debated the future of Scotland’s NHS.
NHS Dumfries and Galloway eventually agreed to pay for the chemotherapy after Labour MSP Elaine Murray took up his case.
But despite Brian’s condition improving and the tumours shrinking, the health board are refusing to pay for the SIRT process, which is supposed to begin within a month of the chemo.
It is thought the treatment could prolong his life for at least a year. Without it, he has a life expectancy of three months.
Brian told the Record he is still hoping for a change of heart from the health board so he can see his daughter Roxy start school in August.
“A year may not seem like a long time,” he said. “But my daughter is just 11 and will be starting secondary school in August. I have a step-son who is 17 and will be starting university soon.
“A year is a long time for them.”
Dumfriesshire MSP Murray yesterday urged Health Secretary Shona Robison to take up the case.
Brian watched from the public gallery as the SNP minister refused to commit to helping him get the treatment he needs.
 

She said: “We’d normally say that if a person wishes to access a certain therapy, they should discuss it with the team that is responsible for their care in the first instance to identify whether their specialist doctor considers that they would benefit from that new treatment.
“We would expect boards to have processes in place to allow patients who are recommended by their specialist as potentially benefiting from that treatment to be considered for that therapy.
“I think that the best way to follow up would be if Elaine Murray emails or writes to me with the particular circumstances of the case.
“I can then get back to her in more detail.”
Brian branded the Scottish Government’s whole approach to the issue as “a farce”.
His wife Shoena added: “We knew we would have to fight the cancer but we did not expect to have to fight the Scottish NHS too.”
Murray last night wrote to Robison demanding action. She said: “[Brian] knows that the treatment will not be a cure, but it will extend his life and give his family longer with him.
“As a man with a family he can ill afford &pound;26,000 for private treatment and is upset he would have been offered the treatment on the NHS if he lived on the other side of the Border.
“Moreover, there is a chance this treatment could help other patients with this cancer.
“You are probably aware that mortality rates for oesophageal cancer are significantly higher for males in Scotland compared to the other countries of the UK.
“I do hope that you will be able to intervene to help Mr Houliston.”
Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

