THE Scottish business world has a bright future ahead if the calibre of these amazing young people is anything to go by.
The contenders for this year’s Young Enterprise Scotland award show there is no shortage of great ideas and hard workers among the next generation of business leaders.
 The competition, now in its 20th year, is designed to let school pupils cut their entrepreneurial teeth under the watchful eyes of mentors and teachers. They are in charge of the whole process, from choosing the company name to putting together the product. 
The 15 finalists, selected from across Scotland, will fight it out at a gala event in Glasgow next week.
They have to present their ideas, staff a trade stand stall and impress the judges with their products, their enthusiasm and what they’ve learned from their YES experience.
 

All of these firms have already won regional finals and seen off some strong competition. Nearly 2500 students aged 16 to 18 from 140 schools took part in the programme and created 219 new businesses.
 As well as the top gong, Company of the Year, there are awards for best company report, trade stand and presentation. Other categories recognise marketing, social enterprise, retail excellence and even the teacher who has done the most to help pupils flex their  entrepreneurial muscles. 
There is a strong green theme among this year’s finalists.
STAMP! – from Oban High School – found the bits and pieces they needed to make their holly wreaths and log candles in the surrounding area.
 

Dinamus, from Lomond School, used vinyl records to make wall clocks, coasters and photo frames.
And Empresa, from Waid Academy, made several different gift items, all from previously used bits and pieces.
Glass was a popular material. At Inverurie Academy, they upcycled old bottles and jars to make serving plates and candle holders.
And Fjara, from Kirkwall Grammar School, used sea glass from the local Orkney beaches to make jewellery.
Others made products to appeal to environmentally conscious customers.
The Go Co from Stewarton Academy produced high-quality cotton bags for life to be used on the go – and avoid the 5p charge for a plastic carrier.
 

Another popular theme was cookery, with a couple of schools getting their Jamie Oliver on and creating recipe books. Castle Dining, from Castle Douglas High School, enlisted the help of local chefs and hospitality businesses to produce a collection of regional recipes.
Rise Enterprise, from Airdrie Academy, had a similar idea. And the success of their cookbook, which was printed by a local firm, has given the pupils a taste of what’s possible.
One of them told the judges: “Young Enterprise has allowed me valuable insight into how a business is run.”
YES chief executive Geoff Leask said: “The programme is one of the most wonderful ways to prepare young people for life beyond school.
“The skills that are developed by young people will be great enablers for their life ahead.”
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

