A GOVERNMENT benefits hotline adviser is facing jail – after scamming tens of thousands of pounds in benefits.
Avril Murray – who was employed by the Department for Work and Pensions in their Dundee call centre – claimed she was a single mum to benefits bosses.
But Murray – whose job required a good knowledge of the benefits system and involved her discussing tax credit claims with callers – was living with her husband and he had a full-time job.
As a result, she fraudulently raked in &pound;33,000 in handouts she should not have received over a 10-year period.
Prosecutor Vicky Bell told Dundee Sheriff Court 50-year-old Murray’s crime was “exacerbated” by the fact she worked for the very department she was scamming.
Bell added: “She was employed by the DWP in their Dundee contact centre until September 11 last year. She then resigned ahead of an interview under caution the following day.
“During the time she worked there, 10 years, she claimed working and single tax credits, and over a six-year period claimed housing benefit, council tax benefit and single person’s discount on her council tax. A total of &pound;33,000 was fraudulently claimed over the period – &pound;28,000 in tax credits and &pound;5000 in housing and council tax benefit.
“She didn’t declare she was living with her husband, who was in full-time employment.
“This was exacerbated by the fact she was employed by the DWP to answer general inquiries about tax credits which necessitated her to have a good knowledge of the tax credit system and advise on them.
“Her husband was interviewed about this and said he had no knowledge of any of it. During a meeting with her manager at DWP, she said she had been silly to claim as a single person.”
First offender Murray, of Dundee, pleaded guilty to charges under the Tax Credits Act and the Social Security Administration Act.
Jim Laverty, defending, said: “I’d ask for bail to be continued in the meantime so that matters can be put in order.”
Sheriff George Way deferred sentence until next month for social work background reports and released Murray on bail.

