 

AN SSPCA inspector was given a laugh after responding to reports of donkey neglect, only to find the animal was actually a giant ornament.
Senior Inspector Bill Little attended the house in Airdrie to investigate claims that a donkey was tied to the fence of a back garden with no access to food or shelter.
However the 'neglected' mule turned out to be a fibreglass model which had been previously used in Nativity plays.
Owner, Reverend Georgie Baxendale was able to see the funny side after the SSPCA turned up to check that he was properly caring for the donkey, which he named Joshua.
She said: &quot;This is the funniest thing I've ever heard in my life. I used to have two donkeys and bought Joshua as a reminder.
&quot;He's very eye-catching and has appeared in many nativity plays over the years.
&quot;I think this could have been a joke or maybe the person who reported it just doesn't know donkeys very well as real ones don't stand as still as Joshua!&quot;
 

Senior Inspector Bill Little said: &quot;The caller stated the donkey was kept in the back garden of a house in Airdrie and tied to a fence without any shelter.
&quot;When I arrived, the owner asked me if I wanted a laugh and when she showed me the ornamental donkey it certainly gave me a chuckle.
&quot;The donkey is made of fibreglass and goes by the name Joshua. He used to be kept at the side of the house and could be seen by people walking by so it's possible someone called us as a practical joke.
This isn't the first time the Scottish SPCA has experienced a case of mistaken identity.
In 2014, a terrified woman called the SSPCA after finding a snake in her home - however the slithery character turned out to be rubber! And in Thurso, concerned animal lovers contacted the SSPCA after seeing an iguana stuck up a tree. Luckily the iguana turned out to be a stuffed toy.

 
Bill said, &quot;A couple of years ago one of my colleagues in Aberdeen responded to a report of owl neglect but when he arrived he discovered the distressed bird was in fact a plastic garden water feature. &quot;On another occasion we were called to rescue a snake lurking in a loft, only to find part of an Adam and Eve Halloween costume.
&quot;This job can be very tough as we deal with cruelty cases and severely injured animals on a daily basis, so it's quite nice when something like this makes us smile.
&quot;Although this incident was a false alarm, it's always better to be safe than sorry and we'd encourage anyone with concerns about an animal to call our helpline on 03000 999 999.&quot;
 Try our entertainment quiz below 

