ANGELA Constance kicked off the 2015 Education Awards in style yesterday – in a pair of patterned Dr Martens boots.
The Education Secretary has six pairs of Docs, which are more often seen in the corridors of the chemistry department than the corridors of power.
 Welcoming 400 of Scotland’s school elite to the education Oscars, she said: “This event should have a sense of occasion and formality but it should also be about you having some well-deserved fun.” 
When Irene Smith, depute head at Bell’s Brae Primary in Shetland, accepted the Lifetime Achievement Award, she was joined on stage by the school’s headteacher. They go back a long way.
“I taught her in Primary One,” she recalled. “In fact, there are seven members of staff who have been through my classroom.”
Headteacher of the Year Mairi McFarlane, of King’s Oak Primary in Greenock, lets pupils learn from experience. She said: “We are very into restorative practices and we encourage children to take responsibility for the mistakes they make, to sort things out themselves, and to repair any harm which has been caused.”
Anne Hutchison, Teacher of the Year, allows her pupils at Carmyle Primary in Glasgow to steer their own curriculum.
She said: “I ask what subjects they are interested in and we link them into an overall topic.”
 

Corseford School in Kilbarchan, Renfrewshire, won the Making Languages Come Alive award.
Run by Capability Scotland, their pupils have a huge range of health and educational needs but are learning Spanish.
Headteacher Fiona Catterson said: “There are pupils at the school who have no language but they are still bilingual.”
At the Supported Learning Centre, part of Cumnock Academy in Ayrshire, pupils who need extra support scooped the Health and Wellbeing Award. Headteacher Angus McVake said: “We are absolutely delighted that the excellent work we do in the school has been recognised.”
Hazlehead Academy’s Shirley Torrie, principal of English and literacy at the Aberdeen secondary, persuaded teachers from every speciality to put language centre stage. This won them the Literacy Across Learning award.
Meanwhile, 11-year-old pupil Liam Hamilton, of Kilwinning, Ayrshire, believes St Winning’s Primary School’s victory for Numeracy Across Learning was down to persistence.
He said: “At our school, we don’t give up, we keep on trying.”
At Dalry Primary in Edinburgh, where three-quarters of pupils speak English as an additional language, headteacher Grant Gillies has turned his multicultural school into a creative hotbed.
They scooped the Creative Learning Award for using their rich diversity to write books and blogs and compose songs.
When it comes to gadgets, the staff at St Bride’s Primary in Lanarkshire know their place.
 

Despite winning the Learning Through Technology Award, principal teacher David Adams said: “We refer to pupils as ‘digital natives’, because they have grown up with technology. The teachers are ‘digital immigrants’, because we are constantly trying to catch up.”
Croftcroighn School in Glasgow, for children with severe learning difficulties, said their Learning For Sustainability success was all down to teamwork.
Principal Karen Boyd said: “I’m very proud of the pupils, parents and the community, the janitor and the bus driver. Sustainability needs a whole-school approach.”
 Community Partnership Working for Families in Orbiston, Lanarkshire, took home the gong for Transforming Lives Through Partnerships. It’s a joint initiative with Orbiston Nursery and  Sacred Heart Nursery and Primary School, Community Learning Development and the YMCA. 
Headteacher Karen Somerville said: “We are all there together to support each other to get the children out of deprivation, and to show them that the world is their oyster.”
Two tiny primaries from Skye are the Gaelic Education champions, also thanks to a community effort.
Teacher Josie Macleod said: “We are so grateful to local native speakers who help with the songs and stories behind them.”
Mum-of-two Karen Yearsley, who gives up her Tuesday afternoons to run a forest school at Blackford Primary in Perthshire, accepted the Parents As Partners In Learning Award.
And Larbert High School in Stirlingshire won the STEM trophy for priming the young engineers and scientists of the future.
Headteacher John Reid said: “The award will drive us further and increase the number of pupils who go to destinations in these disciplines.”
 

Caskieberran Primary School in Glenrothes won the Enterprise And Employability Across Learning award (primary and early years) for their work with Lomond Homes and Tree of Knowledge.
 Headteacher Elaine Smith said: “This award is for the staff, the pupils, the parents, our  business partners – everyone related to the school really.” 
The senior pupils from St Ninian’s in Kirkintilloch, near Glasgow, who won the secondary category, benefited from working with firms such as construction group Morgan Sindall.
Joyce Gray, principal of business education, said: “There is a range of entrepreneurial and employment skills embedded in the curriculum and we try to give pupils targeted work experience.”
 Every school needs a Joe Herd, according to St Luke’s deputy head, David Gordon. Joe’s work  at the high school in Barrhead, near Glasgow, has won him the Educational Supporter of the Year award. 
David said: “Joe has an unusual job title – manager of social justice and community – but he brings outstanding added value to our already great support team.”
Host Des Clarke kept everything running smoothly at the gala lunch in Glasgow and a sizzling dance show from Britain’s Got Talent finalists Flawless added some showbiz glamour.
East 40, the choir from St Mungo’s in Glasgow, represented the musical talent being nurtured in Scottish schools.
 The event was also attended by Minister for Learning, Science and Scotland’s Languages  Alasdair Allan, stars from River City and children’s author Mairi Hedderwick. 
 
Health and Wellbeing Award - Supported Learning Centre, Cumnock Academy 
 Literacy Across Learning - Hazlehead Academy 
 Creative Learning Award - Dalry Primary School 
 Numeracy Across Learning - St Winning’s Primary School 
 Enterprise and Employability Across Learning (Primary and Early Years) - Caskieberran Primary School 
 Enterprise and Employability Across Learning (Secondary) - St Ninian’s High School 
 Making Languages Come Alive - Corseford School 
 STEM Award - Larbert High School 
 Learning Through Technology Award - St Bride’s Primary School 
 Educational Supporter of the Year - Joe Herd, St Luke’s High School 
 Teacher of the Year - Anne Hutchison, Carmyle Primary School 
 Headteacher of the Year - Mairi McFarlane, King’s Oak Primary School 
 Parents as Partners in Learning Award - Blackford Primary School 
 Gaelic Education Award - Clann Throndairnis Club, Staffin Primary School and Kilmuir Primary School 
 Lifetime Achievement - Irene Smith, Bell’s Brae Primary School 
 Learning for Sustainability - Croftcroighn school 
 Transforming lives through Partnerships - Community Partnership Working for Families in Orbiston 
 

 Try our quick news quiz below: 

