WHAT an exciting week it’s been at Westminster. This week was the second reading of the Scotland Bill, which will be voted through the House of Commons on June 15.
On May 7 the people of Scotland voted overwhelmingly for the SNP to represent them and defend their interests at Westminster. Our manifesto, which included clear priorities for strengthening the Scotland Bill, was backed by almost 1.5 million voters.
The Scottish electorate made it clear, we want what was promised to us. We were promised that if Scotland voted no we would be offered home rule, as close of federalism as possible. What has actually been offered is a watered down version of &quot;The Vow&quot; and even falls short of the limited powers set out within the Smith Commission. As it stands, the Scotland Bill falls short of the aspirations the people of Scotland expressed during the general election.
The powers that would allow us to protect the most vulnerable in our society have been denied to us. Powers over job creation, the minimum wage and welfare are still to be in the hands of the Westminster Tory government who are insistent on implementing austerity measures that will only serve to worsen the lives of the people who most need our help.
These are the powers that would allow us to take real action to grow out economy and tackle poverty. The democratic will for the Scottish people was accepted by the Westminster Government in September last year and it must be again now.
My constituency of Glasgow East holds some of the worst statistics in western Europe for child poverty, health, and unemployment.
In Scotland one in five child live in poverty; in the Glasgow area it’s one in three. In a country as wealthy as Scotland, this is totally unacceptable. With powers over job creation and the minimum wage these issues can be tackled head on.
On Friday I will be meeting with the Citizens Advice Bureau to discuss the challenges they’re facing due in part to the ruthless sanctions imposed by the Tories in London. I aim to be a strong voice for Glasgow East in challenging these issues and will fully support the work of the Citizens Advice Bureau.
I have also been lucky enough to have been meeting with local groups around the constituency including the Mattie Carwood Day Care Centre at their open day, Garrowhill Primary School summer fayre and St Bridget's Summer Fayre, and Shettleston Juniors open day as well as my surgeries.
I will also be meeting with disability support organisations and will be scheduling to speak at some of their events. In my role as spokesperson on disabilities, I will put the rights of those with physical disabilities as well as those with hidden disabilities such as mental ill health at the very front of everything I do at Westminster.
This week my staff have begun scheduling surgeries, making appointments with local groups and working through the hundreds of cases I’ve received since May 7. We are also currently in the process to acquiring office premises which should be opening relatively shortly.
If you would like to get in touch please email me at natalie.mcgarry.mp@parliament.uk
