A Scots fashion student has been snapped up by design house Calvin Klein after impressing them with his stylish menswear collection.
The Glasgow School of Art already counts leading fashion designers Louise Gray, Pam Hogg and Jonathan Saunders amongst its celebrated former-students.
Now final year fashion design student Jonathan Douglas, 24, from Ballater, has been added to this illustrious list after being plucked by the US clothing company following an interview with them in January.
Jonathan who showcased his designs alongside ten other students from his course said: “I was told by email that after I graduate I will relocate to Amsterdam to work for Tommy Hilfiger Calvin Klein as part of their first ever European graduate creative programme. I was really excited but I’ve just tried to remain calm and continue to work on things for the show today.”
 

Jonathan can’t wait to live in Amsterdam to spend ten months with each label, then look at the business side of things.
He said: “My aim was to work for a global brand that had a truly global reach because as a designer it will push me to learn about fashion as a global industry. Tommy Hilfiger and Calvin Klein have always been labels with a true heritage that I’ve admired and they always try to innovate as well.”
He added: “The beauty about fashion is that you can travel, there are no boundaries and there are different people with different cultures - and fashion translates across that.”
Jonathan, who has a business degree, and has interned for Victoria Beckham, Carolina Herrera and Lacoste, was also awarded a schools and colleges British Fashion Council and Top Man award earlier this year.
 

He said of his fashion: “It’s quite creative but still staying within menswear silhouettes.
“It’s a contemporary menswear collection, forward thinking with clean line silhouettes contrasting with crazy textures. I’ve used foiling, hand painting with silicon paint and collaborated with print design too. It’s quite monochromatic. I think we are encouraged here to push the boundaries of our designs and think outside the box a bit because we don’t want to create something that has been produced before.”
Amongst his more adventurous pieces, Jonathan has designed a see through lightweight top with silicon painted shorts.
But despite his new job with a major label Jonathan isn’t planning to get his designs places on the latest celebrities.
He explained: “I’m not a big celeb fan. It’s a great way to promote fashion but it’s not my main focus.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

