THE grieving mum of tragic Laura McArdle this week spoke of her heartache and said she will never get over the loss of her ‘amazing daughter’.
Laura, a former Colntess High School pupil, collapsed and died yards from her Stewarton Street home as she was returning from working night shift on Saturday, May 30.
Fighting back tears Nancy Wood, 57, of Osprey Crescent, Wishaw, talked of her ‘fun-loving and caring child’.
She said: “It doesn’t matter that Laura was 31 years old — to us she was still our child and her death is just devastating.
“It was such a bolt from the blue.
“She was a healthy girl and never had any major ailments. It is so unexpected.
“She had such a fantastic personality.
“She loved joking and fooling around.”
Stepfather David, 58, added: “Laura was just a crazy girl who loved to make everyone laugh.”
But carer Laura’s untimely death has come at what should have been a particularly happy time for the family – with a catalogue of important events coming up.
Her son Ally turned 14 three days after his mum died.
“He posted a message on Facebook saying ‘I wish my mum was here to celebrate my birthday’”said Nancy.
David, who works with South Lanarkshire Council, added: “Then on June 15 it is going to be husband Phil’s birthday.
“Two days later, it would have been Phil and Laura’s fourth wedding anniversary and the next day we were all leaving to go to Lanzarote to celebrate.
“‘She was so excited about that trip – she was like a big kid – she couldn’t wait.”
Nancy, a home support worker, and David both praised the job Laura had done in raising son Ally.
 

“She was a single mum at a young age. But she didn’t start to feel sorry for herself or moan about it.
“Laura had pride and didn’t want to rely on benefits – she went out and got a job so she could provide the best for Ally.
“She made an absolutely fantastic job of bring up her boy on her own.”
“He’s such a sweet laddie and he’s putting on a brave face about it all.
“He’s like Laura – always thinking about others,” Nancy said.
Then six years ago she met Phil and they hit it off right away.
Nancy added: “Laura and Phil were soul mates. They were devoted to each other. Family was everything to them.”
Yesterday, a post mortem into Laura’s death took place.
The result was that the cause of death was “unascertained”.
“Although, we can now make plans for her funeral, it has been tough waiting,” added Nancy.
Laura had an elder brother Harry, 35, and two stepsisters Gemma, 31 and Kate, 27.
This week, Laura’s colleagues at Mears where she worked as a carer also paid tribute.
Helen-Marie Bolton, service manager Mears said: “We are shocked and saddened to hear about the untimely death of our colleague Laura.
“She was an employee who was held in high esteem and will be sadly missed.
“We extend our deepest sympathy to her family.”
Laura’s funeral will be held at Holytown Crematorium on Saturday.
The time has to be confirmed.
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

