SHE was accused of making a mind-boggling 1002 mistakes in our hospital wards.
A woman under her care died and police were called in.
She remained at work for SIX YEARS despite apparently blundering at every turn.
Meet Jacqueline Young, the worst nurse in Ayrshire.
What do our increasingly mysterious health board say about her...not a jot.
The 49-year-old had the nerve to bleat on about her being the victim when the Ayrshire Post confronted her on her doorstep.
She has at last been ousted from the medical world and only now has the astonishing story of Jacqueline Young been revealed.
The charge nurse, from Kenmore, Troon, spent years at both Ayr and Crosshouse hospitals and a total of 1002 blunders were recorded.
An initial red flag was raised about her way back in 2006.
But hospital bosses took until 2010 to put her on a supported improvement plan.
 

And the following year, in August 2011, Young was allocated a mentor at station 16 in Ayr Hospital, which includes a specialist stroke ward.
Young – previously a charge nurse at a stroke unit at Crosshouse Hospital – convinced colleagues she was able to take the lead caring for a woman who had suffered a stroke.
But she failed to assess the severity of the stroke properly.
And when she took the vulnerable lady’s weight as she lay on a trolley, she noted instead the patient was weighed on a bed.
The discrepancy meant the patient was given an overdose of drugs.
And after initially responding well to treatment, the lady’s condition deteriorated and she died five days later from a brain haemorrhage.
It is not known if the patient’s death was related to the overdose.
A police investigation was launched, but at time of going to print, details of their results could not be located by officers.
 

Following the death of the stroke patient, and subsequent police investigation, Young was then moved onto the general ward and forbidden from looking after patients by herself.
But in just 13 shifts, 129 clinical incidents were noted.
A further 354 concerns were then raised between February and April 2012.
And between May and July 2012, 232 issues were highlighted in just 16 shifts.
Young’s caseload was dropped to just two patients when eight was the norm.
And after initially being blocked by union reps, Young was placed on a formal capability procedure in July 2012.
But during the first month of that scheme, a further 287 issues were spotted.
In total, Young completed 72 shifts between 2010 and 2012 – and racked up an incredible 1002 allegations in that time.
The list of failings included falsifiying documents by faking a colleague’s initials in medical notes.
 

And she failed to adhere to proper infection control methods, and didn’t follow procedure when giving medicine.
She also logged inaccurate and false clinical assessments.
Worryingly, she showed a “Lack of concern for patient saftey and lack of respect for patients and relatives.”
Young resigned in August 2012 and her nursing registration was suspended in 2013.
At a follow-up Nursing and Midwifery Council hearing in Edinburgh last week, Young failed to attend.
But the probe heard Young had sent a letter begging to keep her nursing registration so she could work in a non-clinical role.
The NMC misconduct and lack of competence hearing found there was no option but to remove Young from the nursing register.
Their reports found: “That panel was of the view that other professionals would regard Mrs Young’s actions as deplorable.
 

“Given the seriousness of the misconduct matters found proved that panel was satisfied that Mrs Young’s actions quite clearly fell well short of the conduct and standards expected of a registered nurse and that they did amount to serious misconduct.
“The panel concluded that striking-off is the only sanction which is sufficient to protect the public interest and that public confidence in the profession in relation to the misconduct findings in this case, at this late stage of the process.”
Despite the striking-off order, NHS Ayrshire and Arran refused to reveal what led to Young coming under the spotlight in 2006, or why it took them five years to take formal action.
Nursing boss Ann Gow said: “We cannot comment on any specific case, however NHS Ayrshire and Arran’s first priority is to the safety of patients and service users.
“If staff are found to be in need of development, we will review any possible risk to the public and put an appropriate supported development plan in place.

“If at any point we feel there is a risk to patient safety, we will refer the staff member to the regulator and take appropriate action locally to reduce risk to patients.
But when the Post tracked Young down to her pleasant semi-detached home in a Troon cul-de-sac, she was unrepentant.
And she could not offer any explanation why her once promising career suddenly nose-dived.
She is now working again – but hopefully not in the care sector.
Young whinged: “What the NMC have said is almost defamation.
“They’ve said I’m not caring or compassionate, and that’s not true.
“I loved being a nurse but my name and reputation has been taken apart.
“I just want to move on.”
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

