A SCOTTISH holidaymaker who plunged 15ft from a Magaluf apartment could face a &pound;1,000 fine under the resort’s yob crackdown.
 Jenna McAlpine, 21, posted a photograph of herself looking battered and bruised on her Facebook page from a Spanish hospital bed. 
She wrote: “So first few hours in Maga wasn’t a success.. Managed to topple over the balcony.
“Broke my arm and nose and fractured my hip. So lucky to be alive and I’ve still got all my teeth.

“Sorry to everyone I’ve gave a wee fright to. Just to let everyone know I’m alive and kicking. Well not kicking, I’ll be wheeling instead. Wheelchair for me.”
Police believe she was “balconing” – a craze for climbing between balconies or jumping into pools – on her first night at Club B hotel in the resort on Majorca.
As well as the fine for balconing, there is a &pound;1,000 fine for urinating in the street, &pound;360 for going topless and bans on sex games and drinking in the street from 10pm to 8am.

The Foreign Office said there had been balconing deaths and warned: “Holidaymakers are urged to stay sensible and safe before someone else dies falling from a balcony.”
She added: “There have been a number of very serious accidents - some fatal - as a result of falls from balconies.
&quot;Many of these incidents have been caused by British nationals being under the influence of drink or drugs and most should have been avoidable.
“Your travel insurance probably won’t cover you for incidents that take place while you’re under the influence of drink or drugs. Some local councils have introduced laws banning the misuse of balconies with fines for those who are caught.”

 

 
 Magaluf’s crackdown began on Tuesday. 
 It followed video last year showing a teenager performing sex acts on 24 men on a pub crawl. 
Officials said it would take time to stamp out Brits’ boozing culture.
Those breaking the rules would get advice, not fines, for the first weeks.
A council spokesman said: “The town hall’s aim is not to raise money in fines but modify certain types of behaviour or activities that we want to correct.”
 But since the rules were introduced on Tuesday, hordes of British holidaymakers have been spotted flouting them. 

