A YOUNG Scots holidaymaker badly injured in a drunken fall from a Magaluf hotel has denied she was indulging in the so-called “balconing” craze.
Jenna McAlpine broke her hip, arm and nose in a terrifying 15ft plunge just hours after arriving in Majorca and said it was a “miracle” she survived.
Spanish police sources suggested the 21-year-old may have been “balconing” - a local term for people jumping from one balcony to another or into a swimming pool.
It raised fears she could be hit with a &pound;1000 fine as part of a newly-launched crack down on out of control revellers in the notorious resort.

But Jenna, from Rosyth in Fife, took to Twitter to refute the claim and insist she fell from “my balcony” at the Club B Hotel.
She added: “I certainly wasn’t climbing onto other balconies.”
On Facebook Jenna wrote: “Thank you so much for all the kind messages everyone. I’m not in any fit state to reply to them all just now but I will get through them eventually.
“It’s a miracle that I’m alive and I’m so grateful. I’m also really sorry for what I’ve put everyone through.

“The girls and my family have been amazing couldn’t have got through this without them. Thanks again everyone, means a lot!”
It is understood Jenna was on holiday with six female friends.
Her pal Caitlin Crawford, who is on the trip, posted a photograph of their group visiting Jenna in hospital along with the message: “Only team photo of the holiday.”
Jenna is planning to travel back to Scotland as soon as she’s discharged, and her pals seem unwilling to stay on without her.

After tweeting the hospital snap, Caitlyn wrote: “I just want to come home this holiday is not good.”
Jenna was injured at 7pm on Tuesday but posted a photo of herself in hospital the next day to reassure friends she was “alive and kicking”.
She admitted to being “pretty drunk” when she “tripped up and toppled over” the balcony. Her arm was put in a cast and she told how she would need a wheelchair to get around.
But Jenna, who’s understood to work for a recruitment agency, doesn’t seem to be put off from enjoying herself when she gets home.
One pal asked about meeting up, asking: “Edinburgh soon? I’ll wheel you about the town.”
Jenna tweeted back: “Sounds like a great plan!”

Asked about having a night-out, Jenna replied: “When I’ve recovered we can hook up.”
Another friend told her: “Never leave Rosyth again.”
Jenna joked back: “Hahaha your right. Big bad broken mcalps.”
Following the accident, worried Foreign Office officials pleaded with young tourists to “stay sensible and safe before someone else dies falling from a balcony”.
Fines were brought in at midnight on Tuesday - hours before Jenna’s fall - as part of a blitz on hi-jinks and bad behaviour in Magaluf.
On Tuesday, we told how teens and young adult tourists vowed to rebel against measures including a ban on street drinking after 10pm and pub crawl restrictions.

Hospital worker Hannah MacDonald, 19, from Perth, became the defiant face of those ignoring curbs on drunkenness.
She boasted: “We’re not here to worry about drinking on the street. We’re here for a reason — we’re here to get f****** mortal and just love life.”
Safety and protecting young holidaymakers are the key aims of the bid to clean up Magaluf’s debauched image.
