IT might be one of Scotland’s only warm days, but that’s no excuse to vandalise fire hydrants, emergency services have warned.
Scottish Fire and Rescue Service, Police Scotland and Scottish Water said vandals who set off hydrants could endanger lives and property and cause substantial disruption to water services.
The now annual message before school holidays - timed to the hottest day in Glasgow so far - said there were several vandalism incidents on Wednesday as temperatures climbed.
These incidents occurred in streets such as: Abbeycraig Road, Easterhouse; Galloway Street, Springburn; Dykehead Road, Ballieston; Gordon Avenue, Garrowhill; Queen’s Crescent, Bargeddie; and Gourlay in the Calderwood area of East Kilbride.
The vandalism can leave thousands of properties without water or with reduced pressure, hamper fire fighting, or cause localised flooding in streets.
Assistant Chief Officer Lewis Ramsay, the Scottish Fire and Rescue Service’s director of prevention and protection, said: “Children and young people are usually responsible for damaged hydrants so we need parents to make sure their kids know it isn’t harmless fun.
“Damaging a hydrant could cause serious problems for firefighters battling to stop flames from destroying someone’s home or even claiming lives.
“As well as the potentially tragic consequences for anyone trapped in a fire where that hydrant would be used, the damage also risks high pressure water causing serious injury to those responsible, pedestrians and road users.
“Hydrant vandalism is a serious issue that threatens people and impacts fire service operations, so I’d ask everyone to help prevent it and in doing so protect their communities.”
Vandalising or setting off a fire hydrant could lead to a fine of up to &pound;5000.
Superintendent Ross Aitken, of Police Scotland, said: “Police Scotland’s focus is on keeping people safe; setting off or damaging fire hydrants can have potentially tragic consequences and endanger lives and we would ask any member of the public to report such acts of vandalism.
“Our emergency service partners in the Scottish Fire and Rescue Service require access to hydrants to deal with incidents they are called to attend – the potential impact of a damaged hydrant at the scene of a fire could be devastating.
“The act of damaging a high-powered fire hydrant could also lead to injury to passers-by or passing motorists. Anyone found misusing or vandalising them can be assured that police will take the appropriate action. If you see anything suspicious in an emergency remember always call 999 or for non-urgent enquiries please use 101 and we will respond.”
Jim Hassan, Scottish Water’s water operations manager in the Glasgow area, added that though it might be seen as just a prank, the vandalism is serious.
He said: “Whenever there are a number of these incidents Scottish Water has to bring in extra resources and this can adversely affect our ability to deal with water-related issues elsewhere.
“This mindless vandalism is a very serious community problem in some areas and we are urging people there to help us tackle the problem by reporting any incidents to the police immediately.”
People who know anyone responsible for fire hydrant vandalism can call the independent charity Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111 or give the information anonymously on www.fearless.org, which is part of Crimestoppers.
