A 67-YEAR-OLD terminally ill man waited 11 hours to get into the new South Glasgow University Hospital - seven for an ambulance and four on a trolley in the corridor.The family of leukaemia sufferer Robert Argo, from the South Side, has hit out at the &quot;disgusting&quot; treatment of the former BAE Systems worker, after he had to wait seven hours for an ambulance to take him from the Prince and Princess of Wales Hospice.Robert's daughter Susan Albert said the family could have taken him on the 10-minute trip if they had known it would take so long and said they have had no explanation for the long wait. The factory worker, 44, said: &quot;He was in the hospice for a couple of weeks when doctors became concerned he may have developed a chest infection on Monday. I had been there all afternoon with my mum, Linda, when they called the ambulance at 6pm. I went home, then on to the hospital car park to meet them.&quot;The hours ticked by and Susan, of Glen Kyle Drive, Darnley, called the hospice to find out what was happening. She said: &quot;They said they had called back three times to ask where the ambulance was. I spoke to an ambulance driver who told me to go in and ask at the desk. She said she had to talk to the nurse and ask them to upgrade the ambulance.&quot;It was about 1.30am before the ambulance finally arrived at the hospital and even then Robert's ordeal was far from over.Susan said her dad, who retired two years ago, was taken into triage and then put in a corridor at 2.15am to wait for a cubicle.&quot;He wasn't quite with it,&quot; she said. &quot;He had been very sleepy during the day. He didn't say much.&quot;He was lying on the trolley on oxygen. There was no pain relief. He got a cup of tea at 4.30am.&quot;Susan, her mum Linda, son Alan, 21, and her brother, also called Robert, waited until about 5.45am before her father was finally sent for an X-ray.She added: &quot;My son asked them how long it would be before he got a room and they said there were nine people in front of him.&quot;He wasn't the only one in the corridor - there were three people sitting facing reception, two in wheelchairs and another on a trolley.&quot; Her dad, who is still in hospital, was finally admitted shortly before 6am.Susan said: &quot;I am really disgusted with it. It's a terrible way to treat people, whether they've got cancer or not.&quot;Her father, who was diagnosed last January, is still in hospital.A spokesman for the Scottish Ambulance Service said they were called by the hospice at 6.21pm for a non-emergency patient transfer.He said: &quot;A number of attempts to dispatch an available crew were made, however ambulances had to be prioritised to respond to emergency demand and the patient was not transferred until 12.56am.&quot;We maintained contact with the hospice to ensure the patient's condition did not worsen and are sorry for any discomfort they may have experienced as a result of the wait.&quot;A spokeswoman for NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde said the patient was brought to the hospital in the early hours of Tuesday morning and transferred to an appropriate bed &quot;as soon as one became available&quot;.She added that merging three hospitals has created &quot;some challenges&quot;. and said: &quot;This has led to some patients waiting longer than we would have wished and we apologise for this.&quot;A spokeswoman for the hospice declined to comment due to &quot;patient confidentiality&quot;.