Actor, model and campaigner Atta Yaqub supports MELA, which this year celebrates its 25th anniversary.Atta made his film debut in 2004, starring in Ken Loach's film Ae Fond Kiss. The Scots-Asian still has ties with Pakistan, but very much sees himself as Scottish. We asked Atta about his relationship with his home city of Glasgow, and why he's a big fan...What do you like best about Glasgow?The people, the huge variety of places to eat, its multicultural nature - there's a beautiful mixture of ethnicity, race, colour, and people get on with each other. It really has it all, and after driving for 20 minutes you can be in Loch Lomond. It's beautiful. And it's home.Do you find Glaswegians fairly open minded and open to multiculturalism?The majority definitely are open minded and willing to understand which is refreshing.You've done a fair bit of modelling, including London Fashion Week. Would you say fashion is a big part of your life?I think when I was younger fashion played a big part, although I still do enjoy going to fashion events and supporting designers. Of course I still like to think of myself as stylish too!Are you at all inspired by Asian style?I'm not so much inspired by Asian style, but I respect and enjoy learning about Asian trends and music, and supporting Asian events.What was it like growing up in Glasgow in the 70s/80's? Did you/ your family ever encounter any racist behaviour from people because of your Pakistani-background?My Mum raised five kids and she always encouraged us to integrate. Of course we experienced racism, and unfortunately it still occurs, but I believe that educating people is key. Things have improved a lot in Glasgow.What 's your best memory of being a kid?My school years at Shawlands Academy were exciting and fun. It is such a diverse school; the teachers' innovative approaches were a big part of my upbringing.You're heavily involved with the Youth Counselling Services Agency in Pollokshields. How did you get involved?I started as a youth worker and then focused on Drug Awareness issues for ethnic minority communities. It's been challenging but also really worthwhile work and given me a fascinating insight into community development.How did you get involved with Glasgow Ansar Football Club?My best friend Zuby and I set up the club in order to provide a sporting platform for ethnic minority communities. We started out with one football team and now have three with leadership training programmes and sports holiday programmes. It's much more than just football now.When did you realise you wanted to be an actor?I didn't realise - it just happened! The Model Team sent me for an audition, and fate and God were on my side. The rest is through hard work and being in the right place at the right time. And Mum's prayers of course.Was it fun filming the STV advert? How did that come about?Any job to do with TV, film, theatre is great fun and I love learning while I'm doing it! It came about thanks to an audition that my agent sent me to.In 2012, you backed an awareness-raising campaign to make it a criminal offence for anyone in Scotland to be forced into marriage against their will. Subsequently, the Scottish Parliament passed the Forced Marriage Act in 2014 which made it a criminal offence in Scotland for anyone to be forced into marriage.What do you feel about the progress that's been made since you embarked on the awareness-raising campaign, and what do you feel still needs to be done?I think there has been good progress, and the message continues to be spread in different ways which is excellent. Education is the answer here.Is religion a big part of your life? We all have our own faith, morals that we stick to and believe in. Religion is very internal to me.What does Glasgow mean to you? I grew up here and it's home. It's got the best character and has made me who I am today.Glasgow MELA is all about friends and family coming together to have a great time.What's your idea of a great time?Spending time with loved ones, being adventurous and embracing differences.