THEY’RE the Scottish DIY record labels that changed the face of the Britain’s music scene.
Bob Last and his then-girlfriend Hilary Morrison’s Fast Product was launched in 1977 from Bob’s flat in Keir Street, Edinburgh.
During a brief two year existence Fast discovered and helped bring to the public attention cult-legend, post-punk acts such as The Scars, The Mekons, Gang Of Four and The Dead Kennedys.
They also launched the career of synth pop favourites Human League, releasing their 1978 debut single Being Boiled. Bob and Hilary released early material by Joy Division on the label’s Earcom Two sampler.
But the couple turned down the chance to sign the legendary Manchester group because they were uncomfortable with the band name – allegedly taken from the collective term for the women who were forced into prostitution by Nazis for their high ranking officers during World War II.
Hilary said: “We turned down the original Joy Division because I knew what the name meant and I was uncomfortable.
“I since met Ian Curtis. He came up.
“He was a lovely guy. He liked cats.
“It was all fine but I had reservations.”
By then Fast, namechecked in The Clash song Hitsville UK, had already inspired the late Tony Wilson to launch Factory Records.
In turn, Wilson pioneered the music careers of Joy Division as well as bands such as A Certain Ratio and latterly acts such as Happy Mondays.
Peter Hook, bassist with Joy Division and then New Order, said: “They turned out to be great friends and they did eventually inspire each other.
“People like Bob Last and Tony Wilson are very few and far between in this business.
“They aren’t out for themselves. It’s all about the music.”
Bob Last, who wrapped up the Fast Product label after just 12 releases, said: “Tony Wilson called me up many times to ask, ‘How do you do this?’
 

“Fast 13 was Factory, that’s my view.
“I just never told them I had a catalogue number until now.”
After Fast Product, Bob and Hilary launched Pop Aural and an early release was the debut album by The Fire Engines called Lubricate Your Living Room.
Across the M8 in Glasgow, Fast Product’s DIY ethos had been picked up by Alan Horne who launched Postcard Records from his flat at 185 West Princes Street in the city.
Instead of concentrating on incendiary and radical art-punk acts, Horne wanted to make commercial pop music on a shoestring.
He signed up acts such as Orange Juice, Josef K, Aztec Camera and The Go-Betweens.
 Like Fast, Postcard released just a dozen records but the label inspired a new raft of jangly pop acts such as Del Amitri, The Bluebells and The Smiths. Now Grant McPhee’s film Big Gold Dream:  Scottish Post Punk and Infiltrating the Mainstream, is being premiered at the Edinburgh International Film Festival and tells the story of the labels. 
Grant said: “Postcard was almost parochial whereas the majority of the bands on Fast weren’t from Scotland.
“The great thing Bob did was he showed it didn’t really matter where you were from, you could do things like the label.
“A lot of the stuff he was doing with logos and marketing was a different approach at the time.
“He paved the way for independent labels as we know them.
 “Bob managed The Human League and put out a few of their records. People have asked me why I put Joy Division in the film. The plan was to release a Joy Division record but they were  uncomfortable with the name and the connotations of what it meant. 
“They did eventually put something out on one of the Earcom compilations, which were like sampler records of bands that maybe weren’t ready for a single but would work as a part of a compilation.
“They’d have a German electronica band like DAF sitting alongside a band of 10-year-olds singing about why they hate babysitters.
“The Earcom compilations were incredibly diverse.”
 

The cult labels are discussed at length in the film with candid interviews with those behind the scenes, those on the periphery and the main players – Rezillos, Scars, Fire Engines, Josef K, Dirty Reds, Flowers, Thursdays, Boots For Dancing, Associates, The Twin-Sets, Joy Division and The Human League.
The Go-Betweens frontman Robert Forster provides a voiceover to the film, which is being screened at Edinburgh’s Filmhouse next Friday (June 19) before a Q&amp;A session. A performance by a supergroup made up of members of bands from the film – including guitarist Malcolm Ross who played in several of the acts including Josef K, Orange Juice and Aztec Camera – has also been arranged that night.
Malcolm, who now makes a living as a taxi driver, said: “It was more than 35 years ago.
“There was no real infrastructure the way there is now. There was nowhere to play. Punk bands would play the YMCA.
“The bands involved in the film were post-punk because the punk bands all dressed the same, with black leather jackets and spiky hair.
“Nowadays, you can start a band and get funding from Creative Scotland to go and play the South by Southwest festival, but in those days you had to do it yourself.
 “In some ways it was good to be that independent and have to find the places to play –  those pubs that would let you do gigs.” 
Big Gold Dream: Scottish Post Punk and Infiltrating the Mainstream will also be given a cinema run following the EIFF screening and Grant is in talks for it to be shown on the BBC.
Grant, who took nine years to make the film and is working on a follow-up concentrating on the Scottish music scene from 1982 to 1994, said: “It was half a generation before my time and it has been very exciting to talk to all the guys involved.
“People focus on Postcard and Orange Juice who were very influential but Bob Last and Fast have become a footnote, which is a shame.
“I was just starting my career in film and TV and worked mainly as a technician.
“I had the idea to do a documentary on Postcard and Fast.
“It just hadn’t been done before. I had no idea how to go about this.
“I had never made a film before. I was doing it on my own with no real contact in production or filming.
“I slowly built up interviews over a number of years.
“Just like the labels it was very DIY.”
 ●Big Gold Dream: Scottish Post Punk and Infiltrating the Mainstream has its premiere as part of the Edinburgh International Film Festival at the city’s Filmhouse on June 19 followed by a question and answer session. 
