WORK has ground to a halt on a section of the new &pound;1.4billion bridge over the River Forth after a routine concrete pour was botched.
The delay to the Queensferry Crossing could set the project back more than a fortnight and cost hundreds of thousands of pounds to fix.
A source close to the build said it was “a miracle” no one died when pipes carrying concrete from sea level to an upper deck on the north tower burst at the end of last week.
The insider described how 30 cubic metres of concrete – about six lorry loads – were poured before it was realised the consistency was wrong.
Workers were later forced to dig out the mix after it had set, damaging steel rods used to strengthen the huge &shy;structure that will have to be replaced.
The problem was caused when barges of concrete heading for the bridge were held up by traffic on the water at the port of Rosyth.
The source said: “There was a delay transferring the concrete from the shore to the base of the tower. By the time it got there it had started to stiffen up.
“When they started to pump it up, some of the pipes exploded. It was sheer luck that no one was badly injured or killed.
“A few of the lads told them to stop the job because the concrete wasn’t correct but the bosses told them to press on regardless.
“They’d poured about six lorry loads of mix before they realised it wasn’t working and pulled the plug. When it set, it was useless – it was far too brittle.
“It will all need digging out by hand, which will take days. The delay will take at least two weeks to sort out before they can get going again and could cost hundreds of thousands.”
The concrete was being used to &shy;reinforce the road deck level on the tower closest to the Fife coastline.
It is a key part of the 1.7-mile &shy;structure and the mistake caused delays &shy;elsewhere on the project.
Manufacturing of prefabricated sections of the bridge had to be halted because the yard they are stored in is full. It was hoped these sections would have been transported to the north tower after the concreting had been completed, freeing up room for more to be constructed and stored onshore.
 

A spokesman for the project admitted there had been a major issue last week and said everything was being done to fix it.
He explained that the barges &shy;transporting the concrete were delayed because of “marine traffic” in and around Rosyth.
Transport Scotland said: “Some difficulties were &shy;encountered on the first concrete pour on the north tower deck last Friday, causing the pour to be stopped.
“The small quantity of concrete placed has already been removed, cleaning work is under way and we expect to be in a position to pour the concrete in this area next week. The project has a set budget range of &pound;1.35billion to &pound;1.4billion. This remains unchanged.”
The bridge got the green light after corrosion was found in the suspension cables of the Forth Road Bridge, which opened in 1964.
When the new bridge opens next year it will carry all traffic over the crossing apart from buses, bicycles and pedestrians, which will travel on the old bridge.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

