NICOLA Sturgeon was yesterday told to rip up her “disastrous” plan to take control of Scottish finances after independent experts wiped &pound;35billion off projected oil revenue.
The eye-watering cut would leave just &pound;2billion from the North Sea over the two decades from 2020 – down from an earlier estimate of &pound;37billion.
The Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR) delivered their projection as the SNP pushed ahead with proposals for full fiscal autonomy (FFA).
Their policy would mean Holyrood taking control of tax-raising and spending powers.
Labour said the price of oil would have to rocket to $200 a barrel just to balance the books – far higher than previous record prices.
At First Minister’s Questions at Holyrood, Scottish Labour deputy leader Kezia Dugdale said: “The fact that there would need to be an oil price of over $200 to balance the books under full fiscal autonomy shows what a farce the SNP’s policy is.
“This is less about North Sea oil and more about the SNP’s snake oil.
“For the sake of Scotland’s schools and hospitals, the SNP should abandon their disastrous plan for full fiscal autonomy.”
Dugdale delivered her party’s own expert-endorsed oil analysis. It charts how oil prices fell from more than $100 a barrel during the independence referendum campaign to a low of $45 in January.
The Institute for Fiscal Studies have already predicted &pound;7.6billion cuts to Scots spending – on top of Tory cuts – under the SNP’s policy.
SNP backbenchers tried to shout down Labour’s analysis as a “Mickey Mouse” project. Deputy First Minister John Swinney accused Dugdale of being “out of touch with public opinion”.
Swinney added: “She has been going on and on about full fiscal autonomy for nine months, all the way up to the general election. And the Labour Party delivered the worst performance they have delivered in 90 years.”
He added: “What full fiscal autonomy is about is building on the powers of this Parliament – powers that over the last 16 years have seen an improvement in the economic performance of Scotland.
“Our GDP per head used to be sixth in the UK. It is now third, behind London and the south-east. Our productivity has increased from 96 per cent of UK levels in 1999 to being in line with UK levels in 2012.
“Where we can exercise distinctive economic policies in Scotland, we can transform the economic performance of this country.
“For me, that is what fiscal autonomy is all about. It’s about enabling this Parliament to take the decisions that are right for Scotland, not to be at the mercy of a Tory chancellor that comes along one Thursday and takes &pound;100million out of our budget without a by your leave.”
Tory Scottish Secretary David Mundell said: “What this shows is how right the Scottish people were not to believe the wildly exaggerated claims that were made about oil revenues in last year’s referendum campaign.”
Scottish Lib Dem leader Willie Rennie said: “Shouldn’t the Deputy First Minister just admit his full fiscal autonomy plans would be a disaster?”
The OBR said oil and gas projections are “subject to considerable uncertainty”.
But they say even if prices hit $210 a barrel, revenue as a share of GDP would still be a “fraction” of levels in the past decade.
The Scottish Government said some forecasters believe oil prices will bouce back.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

