
The Touch of Tartan weekend is based around the fourth annual Perth 5k Kilt Run on Saturday 8 August. The run first took place in 2012, inspired by Perth’s twin town of Perth, Ontario which hosted the first ever Canadian Perth Kilt Run back in 2010 as part of their tribute to the 800 anniversary of the granting of the Royal Burgh Charter to Perth, Scotland by King William the Lion of Scotland. 
This year’s event is bigger than ever with new challenges being offered in response to feedback from previous Kilt Runners. This year participants can choose from the original 5k Kilt Run, a new Touch of Tartan Half-Marathon Run and three kilted walk events – 5k, half-marathon and marathon length.
 

Kilt runners and kilted walkers wear a traditional kilt to undertake their challenge, and if anyone has ever tried to run in a kilt they’ll know that it is a challenge indeed! For the new half-marathon run participants are just asked to wear a touch of tartan rather than a full kilt – although anyone who wishes to take on the challenge of running 13 miles in a kilt is welcome to try.
Participants in each of the running/walking events are being encouraged to raise money for charity – with Scottish Charities Air Ambulance (SCAA), Guide Dogs Scotland and local charity Perth Autism Support officially partnered with the event.
All of the runs take place against the background of this beautiful historic Scottish city, making the most of the parklands, river walks and country surroundings of Perth. Family and friends looking to encourage the runners and walkers can also enjoy a full day of family entertainment with music from the Bay City Rollers, Perthshire favourite singer/songwriter Dougie MacLean and local fold duo The Mad Ferret Band.
To enter the Perth Kilt Run, Touch of Tartan Half-Marathon or any of the walking events go to www.perthkiltrun.co.uk
 

The fun doesn’t stop on the Saturday as the Touch of Tartan weekend also encompasses the traditional Perth Highland Games on the city’s North Inch on Sunday 9 August. The Perth Highland Games dates back to 1925 and it’s still going strong providing a full day of family entertainment. All the traditional Highland events can be found at the Games, including heavyweight events such as throwing the weight and tossing the caber, highland dancing, bagpipe competitions for solo pipers and pipe bands. Tickets, which can be purchased on the gate, are &pound;8 for adults, &pound;5 for children and senior citizens and under-5s are free.
Perth’s eating establishments are also joining in the fun by hosting a Touch of Tartan Restaurant Day on Sunday 9 August. There will be free cooking demonstrations and food tastings in the centre of the city, and a range of restaurants are also offering a Touch of Tartan signature dish on their menus for just &pound;5. The perfect way to end a tartan-filled weekend.
 

