A TODDLER was left alone for two days with his mother’s corpse after she died suddenly at home.
Little Mason Martin was found by police after they forced their way into his mum Lydia Macdonald’s flat on Wednesday night.
Her distraught dad Ron said she had died of an asthma attack and confirmed a police source who said that three-year-old Mason – who has been left an orphan by the tragedy – had been alone with his mum’s body for days before he was found.
The police insider said: “Officers got the call to go around to the flat because the mum hadn’t been seen for a while. When they got there they discovered her body and found the little boy.
“They don’t know yet exactly when she died but the baby may have had to fend for himself for a few days.”
Last night, Mr MacDonald, paid tribute to his daughter, who lived in Perth city centre.
Speaking from the cottage he shares with Lydia’s mother, Linda, 57, near Scone, Perthshire, he said: “Lydia was a very funny and caring person who’d do anything for anyone. She was very happy-go-lucky and lived life to the full.
“She absolutely adored Mason to bits and was a wonderful mum to him. He was her entire life. Everything she did was for him.”
Mr MacDonald, 66, said Lydia, who has an older sister Chloe, was a hairdresser and was keen to get back to work once Mason went to nursery.
He confirmed a post mortem will be carried out today.
Mason has been recovering in hospital and has improved dramatically.
Mr MacDonald added: “We are Mason’s next of kin and have been in the hospital with him from the start. He was very sad to begin with but has brightened up considerably.He has been told about his mum but we’re not sure how much he understands. We’ll be looking after him.”
 

Mason’s dad Bobby Martin died in December 2012, aged 26. The official cause written on the joiner’s labourer’s death certificate said it was due to “adverse effects of heroin and diazepam”.
Police are treating Lydia’s death as “unexplained” but a close relative, who wished to remain nameless, said the 28-year-old had suffered from asthma and other ailments.
The relative said: “Our understanding is this is a medical matter. We are not happy it is being described as unexplained.”
Former Blairgowrie High School pupil Lydia described herself as a “full-time mummy” on Facebook.
Friends were quick to pay tribute to Lydia on Facebook.
Pal Mark Clephane wrote: “Another life taken far too soon. I just can’t get wee Mason out my head. Poor little boy.”
While Vicki O’Connor, from Auchterarder, wrote: “Don’t ever take life for granted. Lydia, i’ll miss you, hun.
And Ashley Heron said: “”My gorgeous wee pal, still can’t get my head around it. Words can’t describe how much I’m gonna miss you.”
Police confirmed they were called to Lickley Court, off Perth’s High Street, at 8.10pm on Wednesday, adding: “The death is being treated as unexplained and inquiries are continuing.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

