 A VICTIM of serial rapist Zach Rankin has revealed she will turn her back on Scotland in a bid to finally be free of the brute. 
Champagne-swilling Rankin, 23, was jailed for nearly 10 years yesterday after being convicted of raping three women he wooed with flashy dates and subjected to horrific mental and physical abuse.
 But his last victim has told the Record how she fears warped Rankin will plot his revenge from his jail cell and try to ruin her life if she remains in Glasgow . 
 The 24-year-old planned her escape from their relationship just weeks after meeting Rankin as she grew terrified of his bizarre behaviour but was later s exually assaulted by him twice . 
She revealed how his designer suits and lavish nights out were just a facade as he lived on handouts from his parents and struggled to keep a roof over his head.
 Rankin was jailed for nine-and-a-half years at the High Court in Edinburgh , with judge Lord Bannatyne telling him his attitude towards women was “clearly disordered”. The judge added: “You pose a significant risk of harm to any woman with whom you are in a relationship.” 
The victim said: “I’m just glad he’s away from society so he can’t do the same thing to anyone else.”
Speaking of her five months with Rankin – who was convicted of five rapes and six assaults on his three victims, including a girl of 15 – she said: “I met him when I was out in a club with my friends and he was with some business associates celebrating some big deal.
 

“He had a booth and the champagne out. He was getting flashy.
“He knows how to put on a show. He is a salesman through and through and he certainly sold me a story.”
The woman was invited to a party at Rankin’s flat and, after she left, he traced her on Facebook from her nickname, which she’d scratched on a piece of plastic.
She said: “I thought that was quite impressive. I was young and naive.”
The pair started dating and found common interests in history and music. After their first meeting, Rankin, who grew up in the west end of Glasgow, kissed her on the cheek, saying he was “old-fashioned” about women. But within weeks he’d become aggressive and controlling.
One night, after he’d been kicked out of his flat and the pair were sleeping on a sofa in his office, he flipped a table over because he’d missed the bank to collect cash his parents had wired to him from abroad.
His ex-girlfriend said: “From that moment, I knew I had to let him think he had the control. I just had to wait for a safe exit.”
She became withdrawn from her family and friends and her college work began to suffer as she tried to avoid rows with the telesales firm owner.
Rankin first raped the student when she was woke up with him assaulting her as he watched porn.
 

She thought she was free of him when he ended the relationship later in 2013 but he raped her again before she could go.
She said: “I got my stuff and went to leave. I must’ve looked too happy. He didn’t like that and did what he did. I’ve never been the same since.
“Now if someone looks at me the wrong way it takes me back to that place and I can’t think about anything else. I have flashbacks of hands around my neck.”
A year later, she was contacted by police who had uncovered horrific abuse on Rankin’s previous partners.
It was a turning point that allowed her to address what had happened to her.
During his four-day trial at Livingston High court last month, the woman told how Rankin would choke her during sex and told her he liked “playing God”.
His youngest victim, now a 20-year-old student, said she was 15 when she first started having unlawful sex with Rankin, her first real boyfriend.
 But she said their relationship quickly turned into an abusive one and, when she tried to dump him during a camping trip at South Beach, Troon, in Ayrshire in 2010, he raped her in the tent. 
A 24-year-old, mixed-race, single mum said he slapped her and spat on her face before raping her on two occasions in flats in Pollokshields, Glasgow, during their relationship. He was also convicted of racially abusing her.
 

All of the offences were committed between January 2010 and May 2014. The women realised there had been overlaps in their relationships with Rankin.
He had denied all the charges and claimed the females consented to sex. He said they lied because they had a grudge against him but drew disgusted looks from the jury when he boasted of being “well endowed” and said he was “a connoisseur of porn”.
Lord Bannatyne ordered his name be added to the sex offenders’ register for an indefinite period. But despite his lengthy jail term, his last victim says she is still afraid of what Rankin is capable of.
She said: “I was wanting to report him before the police came to me. I felt terrible about the fact more people could be hurt.
“Part of the reason I didn’t come forward straight away is because of how clever he is. His family has a lot of money and he is always talking about the family lawyer and how he has got him out of everything in the past.
“It was such a long five months. It has affected me to the point where I feel like I need to pack up and leave now the trial is over. I’m planning to leave Scotland.
“I know the jails are full and there is a possibility he could be out in a third of the time if he is clever, which is terrifying for me.
“He is a very vengeful person. I’ve no doubt he will be thinking about the people who put him away.
“He is a dangerous person.”
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

