Peterhead author Estelle Maskame is releasing her novel Did I Mention I Love You in paperback this July after it shot to number one in the E-book charts last month.Peterhead author Estelle Maskame is releasing her novel Did I Mention I Love You in paperback this July after it shot to number one in the E-book charts last month.The teenager, who lives in Peterhead, Aberdeenshire, spoke to us has been writing books since she was 12-years-old, and has garnered a cult following from her writing on blog site Wattpad - with over 4 million hits from all over the world.&nbsp;Here are ten other inspirational Scots under 21 who have become stars in their own right.&nbsp;Mhairi BlackAt 20-years-old, Mhairi Black became the youngest MP in Britain for 350 years after ousting Douglas Alexander from the Paisley seat. She is in her final year of her politics degree at the University of Glasgow, and has promised to send shockwaves through the Commons by making the voices of Scotland heard - and famously called Westminster an 'old boy's club.'&nbsp;Jak TruemanDiagnosed with terminal blood cancer at 15, Livingston school pupil Jak worked tirelessly raising thousands for Leukaemia and Lymphoma Research charities. Deans Community High brought the date of his school prom forward so he could fulfill his wish of attending with his girlfriend before he died two days later. In a touching tribute, he also arranged for flowers to be sent to his mum, gran and girlfriend after he passed away.&nbsp;Nina Nesbitt20 year old singer-songwriter Nina Nesbitt, from Edinburgh, won the Emerging Artist prize at the Scottish Music Awards last year. She met Ed Sheeran at 16, and was given the support slot on his European tour shortly after - and had a brief relationship with the singer. Nina had already raked in an impressive &pound;100,000 before releasing her debut album last year through her personal company NN music, which she manages with her mum Caty. She has a huge fanbase with over 180,000 Instagram followers - who refer to themselves as Nesbians.&nbsp;Katie ArchibaldRacing cyclist Kate Archibald, 21, is now a reigning double-European champion. Formerly a swimmer, Katie got into cycling relatively later than her peers at 17-years-old - which she did to earn pocket money. She represented Team Scotland at the 2014 Commonwealth Games, and will be cycling as part of women's team Pearl Izumi Sports Tours International set up by Paralympic Gold medalist Dame Sarah Storey.&nbsp;Mark FloodPaisley born animator Mark, 18, was studying at Glasgow School of Art when he suffered a stroke in 2010 - rendering him unable to move or speak properly. Though doctors told him the damage could mean that it would take years for his drawing ability to return, his own persistence and practice meant that he made a full recovery in just two months. His company Mark Flood Animations specialises in traditional hand-drawn films which he hopes to bring back to mainstream audiences. Mark has been awarded the East Renfrewshire Convener's Awards for Outstanding Achievement in June 2012 and also won the Young Scot Enterprise Award last year.&nbsp;Samantha KinghornFormer gymnast Samantha Kinghorn was 14 when she was crushed while helping her dad clear snow on their farmland in Gordon, Berwickshire. After going to watch the Inter Spinal Unit Games at Stoke Mandeville in 2011, she decided she wanted to become a wheelchair athlete. Now 19 years old, she has set new records for the 100m and 200m marathons, has won three European gold medals, and has been awarded Inspirational Performer of the Year and Sports Personality of the Year.&nbsp;Ross GunningFounder of the Philharmonia Orchestra at the Royal Conservatoire of Scotland, percussion and conducting student 20-year-old Ross Gunning, from Clarkston, has taken a group of his musician friends aged 16 to 25 to great heights. The student orchestra has performed at the Commonwealth Games, and the Royal Concert Hall's Remembrance Day Stars On Parade event.&nbsp;Chloe ThomsonWhen her new neighbour Declan, 8, knocked on her door to introduce himself, 6-year-old Chloe knew that they would become lifelong friends. Now in their late teens, Chloe and Declan, who has Down's Syndrome, go to football matches together and volunteer with children with special needs every week for years. Chloe was nominated for a Young Scot Award by her guidance teacher, Angela Boyd, at Dalziel High School in Motherwell. Despite her grief at losing her 26-year-old brother to diabetes in 2011 and struggling with dyslexia throughout school, Chloe has went on to study sports and fitness at college and hopes to teach P.E to disadvantaged young people when she is older.&nbsp;Cherry CampbellAt 9-years-old, Glasgow schoolgirl Cherry Campbell became the youngest ever children's BAFTA winner last year for her starring role in the TV adaptation of Katie Morag - based on the award-winning books about an adventurous young girl who lives in the fictional Island of Struay.&nbsp;Millie InnesMaking her big break as Evie in BBC One drama Single Father five years ago, 13-year-old Millie now has her own BBC show, Millie Inbetween, after impressing TV bosses with her successful audition for the role of Daisy in Tracey Beaker spin-off series Dani's House. The Cardonald teenager is now in fourth year at Ross Hall Academy, and also attends the Glasgow Academy of Musical Theatre Arts. She says she wants to pursue her career in acting, and wants to work in grittier roles like Natalie Portman's character Mathilda in critically acclaimed Luc Besson film Leon.