THE Tartan Army invaded Dublin’s iconic Temple Bar yesterday as thousands of Scots descended of the city for today’s big match.
Clad in kilts and in great voice as ever, the Scotland fans seemed to be riding on a wave of optimism inspired by the team’s improvement under manager Gordon Strachan.
One small group of supporters also won the battle of the black stuff yesterday as they conquered one of Ireland’s most iconic tourist attractions.
Five pals from Lanarkshire – led by “Squadron Leader” Andy Redmond – took over the Gravity Bar atop the Guinness Brewery in Dublin’s St James’s Gate.
With the venue for today’s match against the Republic, the Aviva Stadium, visible on the skyline behind them, the Scots formed an audacious V for Victory formation to show their confidence.
“I just have a feeling we can do it,” said Andy, 67, from Motherwell and the Tartan Army’s pensioner poster boy.
“I’d probably take a draw right now but the bet to place is Scotland winning 2-1.”
More from the Scotland camp
 

The bearded supporter did his bit for international relations, posing with giggling lady tourists from all over the world.
With each photograph that was taken, Andy would bellow out the nationality of his companion.
“China”, he roared one minute. “Vietnam….and did I mention the Netherlands?” he added.
Andy travelled to Dublin with mates David Shaw, 54, Brian Smith, 51, David Jardine, 56 and Ian McCulloch, 57.
The Irish capital is just a staging post on a summer odyssey which will take the lads to Spanish destinations Santander, Seville and Marbella, with the Scots due to play Gibraltar later in the year.

Thousands more will join them today at the old Lansdowne Road, where Scotland could take a major step towards the European Finals in France next year with victory over their hosts.
Friends Alan Clark and Dylan Wallace may have travelled together from Glasgow but they were not in unison. Alan, 21, proudly wore the Scottish kit and kilt while chum Dylan sported the green of his homeland.
Alan, from Forres, Moray, said: “We’re students together at Glasgow Caledonian University. It was Dylan who was getting all the looks in Scotland but it’s my turn to get stared out now we’re in Ireland.
“We’ve got tickets for the Irish end. I’m just hoping there’s not problem about getting in with the kilt on.”

Dylan, who is originally from County Tyrone, added: “We’ve not quite come to blows yet – I’m thinking about pointing him out when we get among the Irish lads in the stadium.”
The travelling Tartan Army have been promised a warm welcome at The Harbour Bar, which is run by legendary pint-puller, Teresa Tuite.
The pub has been decked out in Saltires and Tricolours to celebrate the city’s biggest football match in years.
And a special supply of Guinness steak pie has been created by staff.
For more than two decades, Teresa served up pints of the black stuff in the hospitality area of the Guinness Brewery.
She pulled a ceremonial pint for American President Bill Clinton when he visited the city in 2000 and reckons that she has served more than million drinks over the course of her working life.
 

Teresa, 67, said: “We love it when the Scots come here, whether it’s for the footie or rugby.
“We’ve prepared a pile of lovely Guinness steak pies for the lads.
“And we know – like the Irish – they are always ready for a sing-song.”
• Meanwhile, former Labour Party spin doctor Alastair Campbell mentioned in his tribute at the funeral of Charles Kennedy that the former Lib-Dem leader would have laughed at the reason he couldn’t make it to the Irish capital.
Campbell said: “Charles – who was not a football fan – would smile that because of the funeral I have had to forego trip to Dublin for Ireland-Scotland match.”
  Irish bookie Paddy Power 'stirs the haggis' ahead of Euro 2016 clash with cheeky dig at Scots 

 Try today's sports quiz: 

