AWARD-WINNING chef Chris Rouse was inspired to name his new restaurant by nothing more scientific than teaming a colour with an animal.
A fortnight after opening its doors and it’s already clear he has not created a white elephant.
Rouse has more silver and crystal on his mantelpiece at home than in the crockery cupboard at Black Dove.
He is the current Scottish Italian Chef of the Year, goes for the British title in November and, as head man at Celino’s, helped Dennistoun’s fabulous deli bistro to last year’s Hot Plate award.
He’s out on his own for the first time, striking while the pan is still hot and, on this evidence, it’s his restaurant rivals who are most likely to be feeling the heat.
However, there’s the rub – unlike its boozers, exceptional places to eat in Shawlands are harder to find than a bungalow at the Cross. Black Dove is not so much exploiting a gap as blowing a hole in the belief southsiders must head over the river to Finnieston or the city centre if they want a culinary experience above the ordinary.
 Its formula is simple, inside the kitchen and out – a short a la carte section aside, this is small plate dining, with a strong focus on seafood and Italian cooking with a subtle twist (pig cheek carbonara, anyone?). 
The tapas style of eating encourages communal dining and the only items on the table likely to go untouched are mobile phones as the focus of conversation centres on the food, rather than Facebook.
Rouse has hit the ground running in the kitchen and the five small plates we ordered delivered exceptional quality and value, as well as a range of amazing tastes.
Yours truly also won a watch by dining with Julie, one of life’s radiators, who turned up in what appeared to be her old man’s night shirt, although Wee Willie Winkie never looked this good running around town at 2am.
She’s also a glorious gab, which allowed my sleekit fork to spear king prawns and scallops from under her nose on the deposit of nothing more than an occasional affirmative grunt.
More food news and review
 

Our range of dishes included crispy chilli squid, scallops and Stornoway black pudding, pan-fried king prawns, pasta scoglio and beef tenderloin, at prices between &pound;6-&pound;10.
The scallops and black pudding were the pick of an outstanding bunch – three fat, meaty pieces of shellfish, evenly browned and seared, atop a dense, oaty, peppery slice of pudding. It was so soft, it barely needed its Glayva and cream sauce, but it helped bind an even smoother texture, with just enough of a liqueur kick to add to the layers of taste.
Julie dived into the crispy garlic and chilli squid, perfectly fried and served on greaseproof paper with a dish of mayo and she loved the way the calamari yielded easily in the little bite-sized pieces.
 The pasta scoglio is Rouse’s signature dish and the linguine with chunks of prawn, squid, salmon, mussels and clams was terrific. He allowed the quality of seafood to speak  for itself – it was drizzled with little more than olive oil – and it’s a good chef who knows when less is more. 
Julie just about fought off the continued advances of my cutlery on her king prawns in a garlic, chilli and lemon butter sauce but it was the only thing she was battling. There’s nothing worse than going 15 rounds with sauce-soaked fingers and seafood shells over the dinner table. Thankfully these little beauties, like us Scots on the summer beaches of Spain, arrived stripped, plump and peely-wally white.
Our final small plate, beef tenderloin with crispy onions and teriyaki sauce, gave the scallops a run for their money.
The quality cut of thin fillet was bursting with the sweetness of the soy sauce and sugar against the beef. It yielded as easily to the knife as my cutlery to Julie’s stare when I made a bold move for another big piece.
Forewarned, dessert was always going to be a two dish and two spoon job and we both opted for the broken gooseberry cheesecake with ridiculously tasty home made vanilla ice cream. It wasn’t the biggest dessert and all the better for it as the crumbling biscuit base with sharp fruits and smooth, light ice cream combined brilliantly to end the meal on a high.
Well, almost. Table service was first class but they forgot to mention a licensing delay meant it was BYOB. Likewise, they omitted to mention no cards could be accepted for the first few days, with both issues now resolved.
Thankfully, Julie’s shapely pins were being propped up by a couple of twenties slipped under the insoles of her Louboutins, so we scrambled the cash. It was the only black mark on this dove that’s about to soar.
 ● Got a restaurant you want reviewed? Contact me at g.ralston@dailyrecord.co.uk or via Twitter @garyshot plate 
