DOCTOR Who writer Steven Moffat today said he was “really, really happy” to get an OBE  in the Queen’s Birthday Honours List. 
The Scot, who is also the driving force behind Sherlock, receives the honour for services to drama.
Steven, from Paisley, said: “I’m astonished and more thrilled than I ever thought someone like me would be.
“I’m not the least bit cynical or the least bit trying to be cool about it. I’m just really, really happy.”
 

Steven took over as executive producer and chief writer of Doctor Who in 2008.
Since then, he has guided the sci-fi show to new heights and steered it successfully through several regenerations of the Time Lord.
Scottish broadcaster Nicky Campbell gets an OBE for services to children.
Nicky, a regular on TV and radio for years, has spoken openly about his experience of being adopted and is a patron of the British Association for Adoption and Fostering.
He said: “I am genuinely flabbergasted. If I have, in any small way, helped raise the profile of adoption and fostering, then I’m supremely proud.”
 

Several other celebrities from the world of music, TV, film and literature are also honoured on the list.
Belfast-born singer-songwriter Van Morrison receives a knighthood.
Eddie Redmayne, who won an Oscar for playing physicist Stephen Hawking on the big screen, gets an OBE.
Doc Martin star Martin Clunes, who shot to fame in Men Behaving Badly, said he is “tremendously proud” to be awarded an OBE.
American film star Kevin Spacey, who is artistic director of the Old Vic theatre in London, said he feels like “an adopted son” after being awarded an honorary knighthood.
Comedian and Comic Relief champion Lenny Henry receives a knighthood and singer Patti Boulaye is awarded an OBE for charity work.
Sherlock Holmes actor Benedict Cumberbatch gets a CBE, as do 12 Years a Slave star Chiwetel Ejiofor and Paddington Bear creator Michael Bond.
A MOTOR neurone disease sufferer who has raised almost &pound;300,000 for research into the deadly condition is among Scots recognised in the honours list.
 Gordon Aikman gets the British Empire Medal. 
The 30-year-old, of Edinburgh, said: “I am completely over the moon to receive this incredible honour.
“It’s too late for me, but we can, and we must, find a cure for future generations.
 “With every day I have left, I will be fighting for a world free  of MND.” 
Scots from all walks of life are celebrated in the awards.
Aileen Paterson, who wrote the Maisie the kitten books, gets an MBE for services to children’s literature.
Peter Dawson, the chief executive of the R&amp;A and secretary of the Royal and Ancient Golf Club ofSt Andrews, receives an OBE.
He will step down in September after 16 years leading the body who organise the Open Championship.
Lynne McNicoll, who has raised more than &pound;1million to support children with cancer and their families, gets an OBE. She set up Edinburgh-based charity It’s Good 2 Give five years ago. And she has continued to raise funds, despite being diagnosed with breast cancer this year.
Lynne said of her OBE: “I am astonished to receive this sort of recognition. It’s a tremendous honour.”
The charity are raising funds to build a centre where youngsters with cancer and their families can go for breaks of up to seven days.
Campaigner John Muir, who led demands for tougher sentences for knife crime after his son Damian was stabbed to death in Greenock in 2007, is being honoured with an MBE.
Iain McMillan, who was the director of the CBI in Scotland for almost two decades, gets a knighthood.
The same honour goes to Kilwinning-born composerJames MacMillan, who wrote a choral piece for Pope Benedict XVI’s mass at Bellahouston Park in Glasgow in 2010.
Professor Pete Downes, who has been the principal and vice-chancellor of Dundee University since 2009, also gets a knighthood in recognition of his work in higher education and life sciences.
Scottish Enterprise chief executive Dr Lena Wilson gets the Royal Victorian Order.

