A FOOTBALLER at the centre of a police investigation for racially abusing Aberdeen player Shay Logan online will not be prosecuted.
Alexander Thoirs, who plays for Highland League club Huntly, appeared in court from custody last Christmas Eve after “a threatening and offensive” image appeared on his Facebook page.
 But Thoirs, 26, maintained he had been “fraped” – meaning somebody else had got access to his social networking account to make the racist slur . 
The offensive message described Logan as a “black b*****d”.
 The post appeared to have been made two days before last November 9’s Aberdeen-Celtic clash at Pittodrie which the Dons lost 2-1 . 
 It then turned up on a number of Scottish football fans’ social media sites . 

 Celtic fan Thoirs’s Facebook page had been removed but the post was retweeted by outraged fans. 
A police investigation was launched and Thoirs, of Aberdeen, was charged with racial abuse over the “threatening and offensive” image which appeared on his FB page.
 

He denied the allegation and was due to go on trial at Aberdeen Sheriff Court on Thursday (June 11) but the case did not proceed.
A Crown Office spokesman said they no longer intended to prosecute Thoirs.
He said: “It is the duty of the Crown to keep cases under review and after full and careful consideration of the facts and circumstances of the case the procurator fiscal instructed that no further proceedings should be taken.
“The Crown reserves the right to re-raise proceedings in future.”

Thoirs, who could not be contacted for comment, previously insisted to the Record that he was innocent.
The 26-year-old offshore worker said: “My phone’s been fraped. It’s under investigation. The police have my phone. “
He claimed police had quizzed him for two hours.
 

He said: “I was in yesterday for two hours. 110 percent not me. I was drinking with pals and the phone got fraped, it was just my mates p***ing about.”
Referring to a picture posted of him and two older men wearing Celtic scarves at a football match alongside the comment, he said: “I wouldn’t put up a photo of me and my own dad, would I? It’s a photo of me, my da, and my da’s mate.”

Thoirs added that there was “no chance” that he’d racially abuse anyone. “I’m not like that in the slightest,” he said.
From his own Twitter account, it’s clear Logan saw the remark but brushed it off.
Logan was already at the centre of a row between Aberdeen and Celtic after on-loan Hoops winger Aleksandar Tonev landed a seven-match ban.
The Bulgarian, on loan from Aston Villa, was found guilty of racially abusing Logan when the sides met in Glasgow in September.
Celtic were adamant their man was innocent and appealed but didn’t play at Pittodrie and later lost his appeal.
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

