FAMILY, friends and politicians have gathered in a small Highland village to bid a fond farewell at the funeral of former Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy.
Nick Clegg and Danny Alexander are among those paying their last respects at St John the Evangelist church in Caol, Fort William, near his home.
Fellow senior Lib Dems including former MPs Sir Menzies Campbell, Sir Malcolm Bruce and Michael Moore, along with Scotland 's Deputy First Minister John Swinney, have also arrived.
Former spin doctor and close friend Alastair Campbell, who previously described Mr Kennedy as a &quot;lovely man&quot; and &quot;highly talented politician&quot;, was among the mourners.
 

A steady stream of local residents also began arriving from 11am to say farewell to the former Ross, Skye and Lochaber MP.
Mr Kennedy, who had a 10-year-old son Donald, died suddenly at his home on June 1 at the age of 55. He had suffered a major haemorrhage as a result of a long battle with alcoholism.
Outside the church, a floral tribute of white roses from Prime Minister David Cameron and his wife Samantha carried the message: &quot;The country has lost an extraordinary talent whose character and courage inspired us all.

&quot;Our thoughts and prayers are with Donald and all Charles's friends at this incredibly sad time.&quot;
The service will be followed by a private burial at Clunes, Achnacarry.
Both of Mr Kennedy's parents - who died in recent years, his father during the general election campaign - were laid to rest at the church.
The principal celebrant today is Monsignor James MacNeil, administrator of the RC Diocese of Argyll and the Isles.
 

Parish priest Father Roddy McAuley, who described Mr Kennedy as &quot;a much-loved and respected parishioner&quot;, is preaching the homily.
Mr Kennedy's family have said the funeral is an &quot;opportunity for Charles's family and friends, the local community he loved and served for so long, as well as his political friends, to bid him a fond farewell&quot;.

