Scots from all walks of life have been recognised in the Queen's Birthday Honours list. 
They include composer James MacMillan, who is to be knighted, while children's author Aileen Paterson is awarded an MBE.
Motor neurone disease (MND) campaigner Gordon Aikman is awarded the British Empire Medal.
John Muir, who has campaigned against knife crime following the murder of his son, receives an MBE.
And Edinburgh-born broadcaster Nicky Campbell has been given an OBE for services to children.
Campbell, a regular on TV and radio for years, has spoken openly about his experience of being adopted and is a patron of the British Association for Adoption and Fostering (BAAF).
Dr MacMillan, who wrote a new choral piece which was sung when Pope Benedict XVI conducted mass at Bellahouston Park in Glasgow in 2010, is being knighted for services to music. 
His compositions are widely played around the world by performers ranging from top international orchestras to local church and community choirs.
Dr MacMillan said: &quot;I am totally delighted to receive this honour. I am especially pleased that the world of music, and contemporary composition in particular, will receive greater focus and recognition as a result.&quot;
The 55-year-old composer, who was born in Kilwinning in North Ayrshire, has previously described the high point of his career as &quot;writing a piece for the unveiling of a statue of the founder of Celtic FC&quot;.
Mr Aikman, 30, from Edinburgh, is being awarded the British Empire Medal after raising &pound;300,000 to raise awareness of MND, which he was diagnosed with last year.
The former Scottish Labour spindoctor, who set up his GordonsFightback.com campaign after being diagnosed, said: &quot;Day in, day out thousands of people across this country are bravely battling this disease. 
&quot;I want to share this honour with each and every one of my fellow fighters.&quot;
Aileen Paterson, the creator of Maisie the kitten, is also among those to receive an honour.
The author, who penned the much-loved series of books about adventures of a cat from Edinburgh's Morningside, is being awarded with an MBE for services to children's literature.
The same honour has been awarded to campaigner John Muir, who led demands for tougher sentences for knife crime after his son Damian was stabbed to death in the centre of Greenock in 2007. 
From the sporting world, Peter Dawson, the chief executive of The R&amp;A and secretary of the Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St Andrews, is recognised with an OBE. 
Mr Dawson will step down in September after 16 years leading the body which organises the Open Championship.
Iain McMillan, who was the director of the CBI in Scotland for almost two decades, is to be knighted for his services to the economy north of the border.
The same honour goes to Prof Pete Downes, who has been the principal and vice-chancellor of Dundee University since 2009, in recognition of his work in higher education and life sciences.
Prof Downes is one of the UK's most distinguished and cited bioscientists, and identified the role of the drug Lithium in treating manic depression.
Dr Lena Wilson, the chief executive of Scottish Enterprise, the national economic development agency, is recognised for her efforts with the Royal Victorian Order.
As part of her role, she has travelled to more than 60 countries across the world, promoting Scottish business interests and advising governments on foreign investment and private sector development.
Lynne McNicoll, who has raised more than &pound;1m to support children with cancer and their families, will be presented with an OBE.
Her fundraising activities inspired her to set up the Edinburgh-based charity It's Good 2 Give five years ago, and she has continued to raise funds despite being diagnosed with breast cancer earlier this year.
The charity is currently raising funds to build a special centre where youngsters with cancer and their families can go for breaks of up to seven days.
She said: &quot;I am astonished to receive this sort of recognition, it's a tremendous honour. I lead a unique team of volunteers, including our trustees, who have supported so many families through their cancer ordeal.&quot;
