 DON'T be fooled by the nice sunshine , holidays can make you lose the plot. Just ask Kate Moss. Part super model, part super lager. 
 This week Kate willingly boarded an Easyjet flight. She must have been half cut. Old Mossy kicked off and the air hostesses were left red-faced . Which makes a nice change from the usual shade of orange. 
Kate labelled the pilot a “basic b**ch”. That’s Easyjet for you. If she’d been on British Airways that pilot would have been a first-class b**ch.
It all started when she was moved into priority boarding. Kate was raging. She presumed a speedy line meant something totally different.
It’s been claimed that the rant, which saw Moss removed from the plane, was sparked when flight crew told her they had run out of her favourite sandwich filling. To be fair, it is an unusual one – Smirnoff.
Yes Kate was seen repeatedly swigging from a bottle of vodka. Not a crime on a European flight, providing the bottle had less than 100ml of liquid and was in a wee plastic bag.
After her outburst, Kate was led off the plane on to the tarmac. But as soon as she saw the runway old habits kicked in and she started strutting and pulling her best model poses.
The police were on the case right away. Around 20 officers responded to the call. One to escort Kate, the other 19 to carry her luggage.
A passenger on the same plane told reporters there wasn’t as much shouting and rowdiness as first thought. Well, there might have been but they couldn’t hear it over the sound of the hen party from Barnsley. In fairness, Kate is the only person who can get physically disruptive on a budget flight. Mainly because she’s the only person thin enough to move around in those tiny seats.
Kate’s just lucky she landed in this country. What about that British graduate blamed for triggering an earthquake – by posing topless on a sacred mountain in Malaysia?
 

Personally, I think they’re making a mountain out of a couple of molehills. If it’s true, though, I’m worried. With the amount of taps aff in Scotland this week, brace yourself for a tsunami down Arthur’s Seat.
So for all Scots getting into the holiday spirit this year, by all means get pure tanned but remember to display perfect model behaviour at all times. Just as long as the model you’re behaving like is Kate.
● Neighbours of sprint legend Usain Bolt have claimed that he is incredibly noisy to live next door to. Apparently he won’t actually move around the house unless someone fires a starting pistol.
