Jim Murphy is to formally stand down as leader of Scottish Labour at a meeting of the party's ruling body.
Mr Murphy announced his intention to resign last month despite narrowly winning a confidence vote in the wake of Labour's general election defeat.
He has since been drawing up plans for reforms which he hopes will lead to the party's recovery in Scotland.
Labour lost 40 of its 41 Scottish constituencies to the SNP, including Mr Murphy's East Renfrewshire seat. 
Mr Murphy will formally submit his resignation alongside his blueprint for the future of Scottish Labour at its Scottish executive committee meeting in Glasgow. 
Among his proposals are operating a one person, one vote system for the leadership election and reopening the Regional Lists to attract the widest possible range of candidates for the 2016 Scottish Parliament elections.
The meeting will also set out a timetable for the election of Mr Murphy's successor, which is expected to be a contest between his deputy, Kezia Dugdale, and the party's social justice spokesman, Ken MacIntosh. 
Mr Murphy, who took over the leadership from Johann Lamont last December, had faced calls to resign from several MSPs, trade unions and former MPs after his party was almost wiped out in Scotland at the election. 
He has previously said it would be up to the party executive whether to accept the reforms he would be proposing before he left the post.
But he warned: &quot;A party in such urgent need of reform blocks those changes at its peril.&quot;
Speaking ahead of Saturday's meeting, Scottish Labour Party chairman Jamie Glackin said: &quot;The road back for Scottish Labour will be long and hard. There is no one single solution that will revive our fortunes overnight, but the proposals we will vote on at the Scottish Executive Committee will be key to our fightback.
&quot;The Scottish Parliament elections are less than a year away. We need to get our party into shape to hold the SNP government to account and offer a credible alternative to the people of Scotland.&quot;
