A DESPERATE toddler pleaded &quot;please help me wake up my mummy&quot; after she collapsed and died, leaving him trapped in a flat alone with her body for days.
The Record revealed how tiny Mason Martin was left stuck inside the flat in Perth's Lickley Court after his mother Lydia Macdonald died some time following a party on Saturday night.
He was eventually found when concerned friends called police.
Lydia's family believe she died from an asthma attack.
When they attended on Wednesday night they found the tot shouting through the letterbox: &quot;Please help me wake up my mummy.&quot;
 

Family and friends have paid tribute to 28-year-old Lydia as three-year-old Mason remained in Dundee's Ninewells Hospital with her parents by his side.
Mason's grandfather, Ron MacDonald, a retired nurse said: &quot;None of this has really sunk in yet but we are having to stay strong for Mason.
&quot;He is our priority now and it's going to take a lot of love and cuddles to help Mason through this.
&quot;My wife Linda and I are concentrating on Mason.&quot;
Mason's dad, Bobby Martin, died in December 2012, age 26.
 

Mr MacDonald, 67, said: &quot;We are his next of kin now and we will take him home with us and look after him.
&quot;He's a stubborn little boy and it's always his way or none, but hopefully that will help him recover.
 &quot;Physically Mason is doing OK and he is beginning to get a little more chatty now.  &quot;When we first saw him he was very pale and quiet. 
&quot;He had obviously worn the same dirty nappy for some time and he was very sore.
&quot;He is still on a drip this morning but the doctors have said he should be able to come home with us.
&quot;Mason has been told his mummy has died.
&quot;The hospital told us it was very imporant that the word died was used and what that meant was explained to him.
&quot;Who knows how much of that he took in but since it was explained to him he hasn't asked for his mummy any more.&quot;
Police attended the block on Wednesday night when fears were raised for Lydia, whose death is being treated as unexplained.
Her family believe she suffered a fatal asthma attack.
 A neighbour told of witnessing Mason being taken away by police after the tragedy was discovered.  She said: &quot;My heart is broken for that wee laddie. 
&quot;There was a party in the flat on Saturday night. Two of the partygoers attended some time later and Lydia was OK.
&quot;But when they didn't get phone calls and texts returned even later they became worried and called the police on Wednesday night.
&quot;When they arrived to break the door down they met the concerned couple outside the flats where Lydia lived and the wee lad was shouting through the letterbox 'Please help me wake up my mummy'.
&quot;It was then they found Lydia's body.
&quot;That poor wee soul was alone in the flat with his dead mother for days. He was a lovely wee boy and my heart goes out to him.&quot;
It is still not clear how Mason coped on his home for a lengthy period.
Mr MacDonald added: &quot;Lydia always had a great stock of food in the house and we are hopeful that he has been able to find enough to eat and drink.
&quot;It looks like he has found something because his condition wasn't too bad.
&quot;What is upsetting us more is what he thought was happening and how he felt when he couldn't wake up his mummy - that is what's causing my wife and I the most distress.&quot;
A post mortem was due to be carried out today on Lydia.
However, her family say they believe she had suffered a fatal asthma attack as a result of the condition she has suffered since she was two.
Mr MacDonald said: &quot;We last saw her on Friday and she was just herself.
&quot;To begin with when we couldn't reach her we weren't overly concerned but when Wednesday came we had had enough and contacted one of her friends and it was she who discovered Lydia and Mason.
&quot;Three times over the years we have had to call 999 for her because of the severity of the asthma attacks - the last was just a year ago.
&quot;We can't believe she is gone.
&quot;She was a lovely, bubble girl with a great personality and always full of the joys of life, that's how I will want to remember her.&quot;
