THE SNP’s plan for full fiscal autonomy for Scotland has dominated the headlines for months.
In the wake of their defeat in the independence referendum, the Nationalists now hope to move Scotland to financial independence while remaining in the UK.
But there is much confusion about what the policy would entail and its impact on the nation’s finances.
Unionists warn that the move would cost billions and inevitably lead to full separation.
But Nicola Sturgeon’s party insist it would give the Scottish Parliament the power they need to ensure the economy can thrive.
Here, political editor David Clegg takes his best shot at answering eight questions the SNP can’t – or won’t – answer on their flagship economic policy.
Independent experts agree that a move to FFA would, in the short term at least, be extremely painful.
Analysis by the neutral Institute for Fiscal Studies has shown Scotland would face an initial deficit of &pound;7.6billion on top of its current share of the UK deficit.
That would mean that if the country wanted to maintain similar levels of taxation and public spending in year one of FFA, it would have to borrow &pound;14.2billion.
It is far from certain this would be possible. Increased taxes and vastly reduced public spending look inevitable.
The plummeting global price of oil. The UK’s budget watchdogs slashed their long-term forecast for North Sea oil and gas tax receipts by an astonishing 94 per cent on Thursday.
The Office for Budget Responsibility estimated that just &pound;2.1billion would be raised in the two decades to 2040-41.
That is about &pound;34.5billion lower than their estimate last year and less than the tax revenue generated last year alone.
But the OBR did admit these figures could change.
They said: “North Sea revenues have been the most volatile receipts stream and are subject to large forecast errors, even over the short term.”
In the face of such bleak figures, the SNP have been increasingly vague about when they envisage FFA being implemented.
Until recently, many onlookers thought the party were hoping to dump the policy but were reluctant to effectively admit the oil crash had damaged prospects.
One SNP MP admitted it would be “silly” to implement FFA now. Another described it as “economic suicide”.
The party have now attempted to amend the Scotland Bill being debated at Westminster to allow the Scottish Parliament to bring in FFA at an unspecified date in the “medium term”.
Presumably, they are hoping the oil price will bounce back again.
This would be a decision for the Scottish government of the day.
During the general election, the SNP espoused an anti-austerity message but did concede that the deficit would have to be closed eventually.
The Nationalists’ opponents have accused them of being willing to inflict a “turbocharged tartan austerity” on Scots in order to pursue their ambition of more Scottish autonomy. The figures seem to back them up.
By using the extra powers provided by FFA to stimulate the economy. Independence- supporting think tank N-56 have claimed FFA could increase Scottish GDP by 86 per cent.
Growth policies backed by N-56 include a new export policy promoting the Scottish brand, commercialising wave and tidal power, a substantial increase in infrastructure, boosting the financial services sector and strategies to boost tourism, transport, food and drink, creative industries, life sciences, universities and healthy ageing.
Opponents said the report was based on “fantasy economics”.
 

Yes. Research by Edinburgh University showed most No voters were motivated by concerns over independence’s economic impact.
They were convinced by the argument made by the Labour Party that in an uncertain world it is better to pool and share resources within the larger unit of the UK. In the face of declining oil revenues, that pooling and sharing will almost certainly involve a net flow of money from the rich areas in London and the south-east of England to Scotland.
FFA would end that, leaving Scots to make up the shortfall.
Another crucial issue in the independence referendum was pensions and the ability of an independent Scotland to afford to pay out to a rapidly ageing population.
The SNP planned to relax immigration rules to allow more people from other countries to move to Scotland to work here and therefore increase the tax base.
But it is unclear whether Scotland under FFA would also be given the leeway to run a different immigration system to the rest of the UK.
If not, the money would have to be found elsewhere.
 

Stopping the Tories having any say in how Scotland’s economy is run.
FFA would move all public spending and taxation decisions away from Westminster and into the hands of Holyrood.
On the current political make-up, that would mean the SNP would have control of all economic levers.
SNP deputy leader Stewart Hosie said: “The SNP are proposing to amend the Scotland Bill to give the Scottish Parliament the ability to introduce full fiscal autonomy.
“Scotland needs significant new powers over our economy, job creation, welfare, wages and living standards if we are to make the most of our nation’s potential.
“Once again Tory and Labour politicians are working together to try to block meaningful additional powers for Scotland.
“Labour’s problem is that they would prefer to see a Tory government, rather than the Scottish Parliament and people, making decisions on key measures like our welfare system and the minimum wage.
“That is an absurd position for the Labour Party to be in.”

