CHARLES KENNEDY'S final journey was accompanied by applause for a popular man.
The spontaneous show of affection broke out as his coffin was taken from church to a private burial in his beloved Highlands.
Hundreds of people gathered to mourn him in Lochaber.
Kennedy died young, just 55. In that time, he carved out a remarkable career as a politician who appeared different to the rest.
He led the Lib Dems, he had to make compromises and he had to play the game like all politicians.
One of his finest moments was spearheading the argument against war in Iraq. He gave millions a voice.
Kennedy was also a lonely voice when Nick Clegg agreed to the disastrous deal with David Cameron. Again the humble Highlander was proved correct.
But sometimes being right isn’t enough.

The consequences of that coalition deal were heard across Britain last month.
And Kennedy, even with more than a third of the votes in his constituency, couldn’t escape the national mood which swept the SNP into seats across Scotland.
It’s a mark of the man that he remained highly regarded by so many in public life, despite often bitter political differences.
His friends regarded him as a sensitive man without ego – a rarity in frontline politics.
Others have suggested a lack of confidence did nothing to help his alcohol problem.
His peers say he enjoyed the good life. But he remained first and foremost a Highlander.
And for many, that’s what set him apart.
 The financial impact of the SNP’s full fiscal autonomy plan is not just a hypothetical question for Scotland. 
Nicola Sturgeon insists her party will keep pushing for the constitutional change despite warnings it would cause an additional &pound;7.6billion black hole in the nation’s budget.
Their stunning general election result gives them an extremely strong mandate to do so.
Yet the SNP also have a responsibility to make clear what FFA would mean for public services, jobs and the quality of life. It is a responsibility they have not lived up to so far.
The Daily Record today does its bit to bring some clarity to the issue with an FFA Q&amp;A.
But there are some questions about the policy only the SNP can answer.
Scots need a great deal more reliable information about the consequences of FFA.
It could well be our future.
Lesley Riddoch made the right decision by donating a &pound;1320 fee she received for hosting a poverty conference.
Everyone should expect to earn money for their work but when the event you are speaking at is about poverty, a more modest fee would appear appropriate.
But fair play to broadcaster Lesley. It was an extremely kind gesture for her to change her mind and hand the money to Women’s Aid.

