IN BLAZING sunshine at Hampden, the Scotland squad are training for one of the biggest games they’ve ever faced.
They’re not taking on Ireland today but facing the mighty Brazil in a World Cup clash next week.
Forget Gordon Strachan and his team of professionals hoping to qualify for the Euros. This sweat-soaked Scotland squad being put through their paces are ranked eighth in the world rather than 28th – and have every chance of getting through the group stage to the play-offs.
The difference between this team and the one in Dublin is these players all have cerebral palsy or a brain injury.
They’re the players who were left on the bench at school, or found their path into footballing careers stalled at an early age despite their obvious skill and commitment.
But now, thanks to increasing investment by the SFA and Scottish Disability Sport, they’ve found their place in the game and are contenders at the Cerebral Palsy Football World Championships that kick off tomorrow.
Like Martin Hickman, 26, a KFC team leader from Lennoxtown, who stopped playing as a youngster when it was clear his disability was affecting the view of those doing the squad selection.

He said: “I did play for a mainstream local boys club but I was never picked so I gave up and played five-a-side. But I’ve been with this team for two years and it’s been amazing. I never thought that I’d play for my country.
“My pappy was a big inspiration, he really wanted me to play. He never acted like I had cerebral palsy and even now I don’t think I act like I have it. When I see myself playing on TV I can see my right side which is affected, but it never feels like it’s holding me back.”
He added: “I was playing football on a disabled placement scheme and someone from the coaching staff noticed me and asked if I’d like to come to train with the squad. I had heard about it but because I played mainstream football it didn’t interest me. But the standard was higher than I expected.
“I think we’re a pretty good team and have a good chance. It’s like our World Cup. I can’t wait to get going.”
The CP game is slightly different – it’s seven-a-side on shortened pitches and a match is 60 minutes as fatigue can set in quickly. There are also rules around classifications of disability from severe – all limbs affected – to the mild. A team can only ever have one player classed as the latter on the pitch at any time and must always play someone at the more more severe end of the scale.
 

Keeper Scott Martin, a 19-year-old accountancy student, has been involved with disabled football since he was 10 but also played mainstream matches for Baljaffray in Bearsden.
He said: “I’m probably the player who has the most severe CP. Both sides of my body are affected. I walk and run with a limp, my left arm is different, by balance is weak and my co-ordination can sometimes go – perfect for a goalie.
“Like every young boy I loved football and just wanted to play. I was able enough to play mainstream and did until I was about 13. But I saw an ad about disabled football and came along and worked my way up to the national squad.
“Representing your country at any level is amazing, but doing it in a world championship is the pinnacle. We’re among the 16 best teams in the world. That’s really something.”
The 14-strong squad are all amateurs, and only get together one weekend a month to train with David McArdle – the SFA disability development officer – and coach Greig Taylor. But the schedule intensifies in the run-up to major championships.
Over the next week at St George’s Park – the home of the English FA – Scotland will take on the US (ranked ninth), Venezuela and full-time team Brazil, ranked third. Russia and the Ukraine hold the top two spots.
While the glory of winning is the dream there’s the added bonus of qualifying for the Paralympics in Rio next year too.
One player who’s been there and done it before is captain Jonathan Paterson. The 28-year-old, from Motherwell, works in a call centre but football is his life. He’s a part-time coach as well as a player and captained the GB team at the Paralympics in Beijing.
 

He said: “I’ll be nervous next week – especially against Brazil. I know we’re good but on the day you’ve only got 60 minutes to prove it.
“I was lucky as my dad was involved with my local boys’ team Blackburn Rovers so I could get to play whereas that wasn’t the case at school. I wasn’t really encouraged there, they even advised me not to do Higher PE as they thought I might not cope. But my dad wasn’t of the same mind and I had my big brother for inspiration too.”
His brother is former Hamilton and Motherwell player Nicki Paterson, now playing in Canada.
Jonathan added: “My parents did everything they could for me. I was at Yorkhill from a young age. I had lots of operations to try and ensure I could be as physically capable as possible. Their efforts brought me here.“
Coach David said: “We’re always looking for new players. Having CP or neurological damage from something like a stroke shouldn’t stop you playing football.”
 ● Scotland’s Group C fixtures: Brazil, June 17, 1pm, USA, June 19, 7pm, Venezuela, June 21, 5pm. Games will be live on Youtube. 
