A toddler who was trapped inside a flat with his mother's dead body for days is now making a steady recovery, his family have revealed. 
Three-year-old Mason Martin was heard shouting &quot;Please help me wake up my mummy&quot; through the letterbox of his home after mother Lydia MacDonald collapsed and died of a suspected asthma attack.
The young boy was rescued by police who smashed their way into the property on Wednesday night, and Mason's grandparents have said he is now battling back from the ordeal. 
Mason, who was found dehydrated and with painful nappy rash, has been recuperating at Ninewell's Hospital in Dundee.
 

Tragically, the toddler's dad Bobby Martin died in December 2012, aged 26.
Speaking at the family home near Balbeggie, grandfather Ron Macdonald said: &quot;Physically he is doing okay and he is beginning to get a bit more chatty now.
&quot;When we first saw him, he was very pale and very quiet. He had obviously worn the same dirty nappy for some time and he was very sore.
&quot;Mason has been told that his mummy has died. The hospital told us it was very important the word 'died' was used and what that meant was explained to him.
&quot;Who knows how much of that he took in, but since it was explained to him he hasn't asked for his mummy anymore.&quot;
 

Retired nurse Mr Macdonald, 67, said he and his wife Linda were now devoting their time to raising Mason after the tragedy in Perth.
He added: &quot;None of this has really sunk in yet, but we are having to stay strong for Mason.
&quot;He is our top priority now and it's going to take a lot of love and cuddles to help Mason through this.&quot;
Mr Macdonald said his 28-year-old daughter was a &quot;very funny and caring person&quot; who would do anything for anyone.
He said: &quot;She absolutely loved Nathan to bits and was a wonderful mum to him. He was her entire life. Everything she did was for him.&quot;
 

The cause of Lydia's death is still being investigated by police.
Her family believes the former hairdresser died after suffering a devastating asthma attack but a Police Scotland spokeswoman confirmed her death was still being treated as &quot;unexplained&quot;.
Neighbours said Lydia had a party at her flat on Saturday night and had appeared to be in good spirits.
But party-goers became concerned when they tried to call Lydia afterwards and got no response. They became so worried they contacted police on Saturday night.
One local said when officers came to break into the flat, Mason was heard shouting through the letterbox.
She said: &quot;The poor wee soul was alone in the flat with his dead mother for days. He's a lovely wee boy and my heart goes out to him.&quot;
Perth and Kinross Council leader Ian Miller said the tragedy had been &quot;uspetting for everyone&quot;. 
He said: &quot;I have been informed by council services everything possible is being done to support the family.
&quot;The council is offering our support in the circumstances and I think we just have to let the police and social services conclude their investigation.&quot;
 
 
 
