RUNAWAY jihadi Aqsa Mahmood is communicating with Islamic State newcomers again – to remind them how to be good Muslims.
The Scot, who fled from Glasgow to Syria in February last year, had not posted on her blog since January.
But in a string of recent messages, she uses quotes to tell her followers about the sacrifices they must make for IS and Allah.
The comments urge people to give money to charity and not to forsake the house of the lord. She also tells them to take care of female slaves.
Last night, the lawyer representing her heartbroken family renewed an appeal to her to come home.
Aamer Anwar said: “If Aqsa Mahmood wants to be a good Muslim, then her family would request that she leave ISIS immediately and comes home.
“Good Muslims do not have anything to do with a barbaric organisation such as ISIS. She has caused a great deal of pain to her family over the course of the last year due to her blogging and the family hoped she would stop.
“As far as the Mahmoods are concerned, she has ripped the heart out of the family – they will never recover.
“But their message to her is still the same – come home.”
The posts came just days after Mahmood, who is thought to have used social networks to recruit other females, turned 21.
One reads: “I urge you by Allaah to take care of the Qur’an and do not let others be better at putting it into practice than you.
“I urge you by Allaah to take care of the prayer, for it is the foundation of your religion. I urge you by Allaah to take care of the House of your Lord; do not forsake it as long as you live.
“I urge you by Allaah to engage in jihaad for the sake of Allaah with your wealth and your lives.”
Neil Russell, doctoral researcher of Islamic and Middle Eastern Studies at Edinburgh University, said the quotes are relevant because they are from a relative of the prophet Muhammed, who is regarded as the last rightly-guided leader of early Muslims. He said: “The quotes come from Ali, who was the prophet’s cousin and son-in-law.
“For some, it is believed that only the prophet and his companions were able to live as true Muslims. After Ali, it is believed that Muslims lost their way.
“Only now, with the Islamic State, do they think they can live as true Muslims again.
“Here, she is using a seventh-century quote from his deathbed, Ali goes through the things Muslims need to remember and adhere to, and she appears to be repeating it again for today’s Muslims.”
 Mahmood was studying diagnostic radiography at Glasgow Caledonian University but quit university and married an IS fighter. She ignored an emotional plea from her parents,  Muzaffar and Khalida, to come home. 

