A relieved Paisley man last night told how he had to be rescued by firefighters after an evil arsonist started a blaze at his top-floor flat while he was fast asleep.
David Greene, 53, is lucky to be alive, having escaped from the fire at his home in Fairway Avenue, Glenburn.
He was in bed in the early hours of yesterday morning when someone poured petrol through his letterbox and set it alight.
David was unaware his flat was filling up with thick black smoke until a fire crew arrived at the scene and crashed through his front door.
He insists that, if it wasn’t for his neighbours and the emergency services, he would have been killed.
David said: “I was fast asleep in my bed and had no idea my flat was on fire.
“Some idiot poured petrol through my letterbox and set it alight. The fire completely destroyed my front door and, if it wasn’t for my neighbours dialling 999 and the firefighters bursting the door down, there’s no way I could have escaped.”
David says he has no idea why his flat was targeted.
He added: “I’ve lived here for four and a half years and I’ve never had any trouble before.
“I’m completely shocked by what’s happened. Thankfully, I’ve got friends who’ll put me up for a few days because all of my belongings have been ruined.”
The fire, which police are treating as suspicious, was reported shortly after 2am yesterday. Around 20 minutes later, a second blaze was started at a flat in nearby Lammermuir Drive.
But a quick-thinking neighbour was able to put that fire out before the emergency services arrived. Police want to hear from anyone who has information about either incident.
Detective Inspector Suzanne Chow said: “Between 2.10am and 2.30am, emergency services were called to a fire at a flat in Fairway Avenue and then alerted to another fire at a flat in Lammermuir Drive.
“Although police enquiries are continuing into the cause of these fires, they are being treated as suspicious and we believe they may be linked.
“Luckily, no-one was injured as a result of these incidents but we must trace whoever is responsible as soon as possible.
“I would urge anyone who may have seen someone acting suspiciously in this area in the early hours of Friday morning to contact us.”
If you can help detectives with their investigation, call Paisley Police Office on 101, or, ring Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.
 Try your hand at our news quiz 

