A BOY aged 15 is among 19 Scots zapped by police officers using controversial Taser stun guns in the past three years.
The teenager was targeted when he threatened to harm himself outside a school.
And six of the 18 others targeted by the weapons – which deliver a shock of up to 50,000 volts – were under 18.
Figures obtained by the Sunday Mail reveal that at least four of the Tasered teenagers were girls.
In the last 12 months, the stun guns have also been used on five occasions where it was later judged the person involved was mentally ill.
Over the three-year period, police officers have drawn their Tasers on 80 occasions, although they were only discharged 19 times.
The stun guns are often used to defuse violent incidents – usually where a person has a weapon.
But human rights groups say they should only be used on under-18s and suspected mentally ill offenders as a last resort.
Pauline Kelly, of Amnesty International in Scotland, said: “The police have a duty to protect themselves and our communities from violent situations.
 

“But Tasers are potentially lethal weapons and should only be used in circumstances where there’s a threat to life or very serious injury to either the victim or others.
“People under the age of 18 and those judged to be mentally ill are particularly vulnerable and Taser use against them should be limited to the most serious cases where there is no alternative.”
Within Police Scotland, 459 officers are authorised to use Tasers and 273 officers are routinely equipped with them.
In May 2013, an officer Tasered a 15-year-old while he was holding a knife at Bannockburn Primary School.
Despite two hours of police negotiation, he was zapped after refusing to put down the blade.
All firearms incidents must be referred to the independent police investigations and review commissioner who can investgate the incident.
The PIRC said: “Since April 2013 there has only been one Taser discharged on a person under 16, which we found to be proportionate and justified.”
Chief superintendent Elaine Ferguson, Commander of Specialist Services, said: “While age is taken into account, the threat posed by the individual will always be the main consideration.’

