THE hunt is on for a sculptor to pay tribute to rent strike leader Mary Barbour.
A nationwide appeal has raised enough money to start the process of designing a sculpture to stand at Govan Cross in Glasgow.
Members of the Remember Mary Barbour Association will tomorrow issue an open call to any sculptors interested in creating a lasting memorial to the Scottish trailblazer.
One of the country’s leading experts, former Glasgow School of Art programme director Sam Ainsley, says it’s an unmissable chance for artists to make their mark on history.
Sam, who is artistic advisor to the RMBA, said: “It’s such an inspirational idea and the statue is long overdue.
“I’m appalled there are so few permanent memorials to women in Glasgow.
“I looked at the list of male memorial statues and there’s even one to Queen Victoria’s chaplain. Someone like Mary Barbour probably achieved more in 10 minutes than he ever did.
“Because this will be a permanent sculpture, the chosen artist’s name will go down in history as the maker of the famous Mary Barbour statue in Glasgow. And if it’s as good as we hope it will be, other work will come their way on the basis of that.”
The campaign, backed by the Sunday Mail, to mark 100 years since Mary’s legendary victory over unscrupulous landlords has attracted high-profile support as well as donations from thousands of ordinary Scots.
 

First Minister Nicola Sturgeon, actor Elaine C Smith and former Lord Advocate Elish Angiolini have all given their public backing to the appeal.
Alex Ferguson gave &pound;5000 to the fund, Glasgow Housing Association have donated &pound;10,000 and last week Susan Haughey, of City Refrigeration, handed over a &pound;5000 cheque to the campaign’s chairwoman Maria Fyfe.
Govan councillor James Adams, vice-chair of the RMBA, said: “The call to artists is a tremendous step forward in our campaign.”
In 1915, mum-of-two Mary led a grassroots army of housewives in revolt against rent increases being imposed by landlords.
The movement she led ultimately brought about a change in UK law to protect the vulnerable while Mary went on to become one of Glasgow’s first female councillors.
The winning artist will be announced on November 17.

