JOE CALZAGHE has been out of the ring for six years but he’s still capable of landing a knockout blow when it comes to waging a war of words.
The former world champion has been involved in a running battle with current super middleweight king Carl Froch, below, and he came out fighting again in Glasgow last night.
 Calzaghe was in town as the star guest at the PG Paper sponsored Action for Children’s sports dinner, helping to raise funds for Scotland’s most vulnerable and disadvantaged young people and  families. And he was as lightning quick as ever to put his rival in his place. A recent Twitter spat with Froch turned ugly as the Englishman practically offered him a square go. 
 Froch – who is still pondering his ring future – said last week: “When I see him, it will end with him apologising straight away otherwise there will be a roll-around on the cobbles.” Calzaghe just shrugged it off as “banter” but it’s clear there’s still bad blood between the pair. 
 

Froch called out Calzaghe numerous times when the Welsh Dragon was still in the ring but the pair were operating on different planets back then.
If they had managed to get it on, Calzaghe reckons there would only have been one outcome. He said: “Carl Froch is irrelevant really. I have been retired from the ring for six years yet he still keeps calling my name.
“My legacy stands on its own. I don’t speak about it, other people do. I don’t call myself a legend, that’s for other people to say. But my record speaks for itself. I was undefeated in 46 fights.

 “I don’t know why he keeps talking about me. We were leagues apart. If we had fought back in the day I would have destroyed him. I was a more complete fighter than he is. He’s a decent fighter, he has a good chin but we saw his limitations against George Groves and Andre Ward – boxers who are fast and can move. 
“Froch is a good talker but maybe it’s time to hang up the gloves and give his mouth a rest.”
Calzaghe quit at the very top. Undefeated in 46 fights, a record 21 defences of his world super middleweight title and a Ring Magazine champion up a division at light heavyweight.
Not bad considering he was fighting with – literally – one hand behind his back towards the end.
 

He said: “You don’t improve once you get beyond 35. It depends on what your body can take. I don’t regret retiring when I did. I knew I was retiring after the Roy Jones fight. The injuries were starting to take their toll and I fought the last five years with one hand. I was breaking my hands every time I got in the ring.
“I was a big puncher but had to start using speed. It got to the point I could not punch. It’s amazing I got through my last two fights, which were my toughest opponents, with one hand.”
 Calzaghe knows Scottish boxing is going through a lull but reckons Charlie Flynn could be the man to kick-start a revival. 
He said: “It’s all gone a bit quiet in Scotland but success breeds success. When a champion comes through then others tend to follow suit.
 “You look at guys like Charlie Flynn . He is only starting out but he’s won Commonwealth gold and will have high hopes. 
“It’s early days but sometimes that can help start it again. Scotland has produced so many great fighters over the years and there’s no doubt they will again.”
 Test your knowledge with our sports quiz: 

