HER dreams of media stardom were almost thwarted when, at 17, Rachel Robyns-Laird was told she had acute myeloid leukaemia.
She got the devastating news just two days before she was due to travel to London to fulfil a long-held ambition to do work experience with Radio 1.
But, after 40 blood transfusions and four months in isolation receiving gruelling chemotherapy, Rachel emerged cancer-free and more determined than ever.
The 20-year-old, from Haddington, East Lothian, had just finished school when her life was turned upside-down.
She said: “It was my summer holidays so I’d just been to Spain with my friend Laura and I was meant to go to Greece the next day to meet up with family but I just had this feeling I shouldn’t go.
 

“It was really strange. I just knew I shouldn’t go.
“The day after I was supposed to go to Greece, I got tonsillitis and it was severe. I had it for three weeks and ended up in hospital.
“That’s when they ended up taking my bloods and they were flagged up as being abnormal. I was referred to a haematologist and they did a bone marrow test. After that, I got my diagnosis.”
Rachel had acute myeloid leukaemia, a cancer of the white blood cells which prevents the body making enough healthy white and red blood cells and platelets to fight infection, carry oxygen around our bodies and stop bleeding if we get cut.
Rachel said: “It was a big shock. I was just starting uni in Edinburgh and had everything in front of me – I was gutted.
“I started treatment the next day. I spent four months in isolation in the Western General in Edinburgh. The chemo means you’re more susceptible to infection so it was really just my mum and dad I saw.
“The first month I found okay but it got harder after that. Over four months, I had 40 platelet and red blood cell transfusions so it was a lot to go through.”
But without those vital transfusions, Rachel’s prognosis could have been very different. As she has a relatively rare blood type, the need for more Scots to come forward and donate was never far from her mind.
During those four months in isolation, Rachel took to her blog to urge her followers to give up just an hour or two of their time to help save lives.
She said: “I wrote so many blogs when I was in hospital trying to get people to donate. My blood type is one of the more rare ones, it’s B negative. It’s only something like two per cent of the population have it so I really wanted people to donate. I think it’s amazing when people take that step.”
After 44 days of treatment, Rachel was given the good news that she was in remission. But after being released from hospital a little over two months later, it took a couple of weeks to regain her strength – and her zest for life that opened the door to Radio 1.
She said: “Before I got the results, I was supposed to go to London because I’d managed to get work experience with Radio 1.
“I used to spam everyone I could. I was doing a community radio show so I messaged the head of BBC Introducing because I love it and he messaged me back and said, ‘Come down to London, we’d love to meet you.’ Two days before I was supposed to go, I got my blood test results and couldn’t do it. I was gutted.
“When I came out of hospital, I lost a bit of energy. I thought, ‘I don’t know if I can do it any more?’ But that only lasted a couple of weeks and, since then, I’ve got to do a lot of stuff with Radio 1 and at events like T in the Park.”
In fact, presenters with years of experience behind them would be proud of the list of star acts Rachel has already met, including Sam Smith, Ella Eyre, Twin Atlantic, John Newman, Chvrches and Nina Nesbitt. She added: “I did a couple of interviews on The Surgery show on Radio 1. They did a cancer special and I spoke on that.
“I got work experience at DF concerts and then I worked at BBC Introducing at T in the Park.
“Last year I got to present T in the Park TV, their own on-site television service. I loved it.
“I was so set on radio but I’m enjoying doing different things in media and, hopefully, I’ll just fall into something I really love.”
Another of Rachel’s passions is encouraging young people to give blood. As a result, she made a video blog with the Scottish National Blood Transfusion Service, which is often used in school talks.
And she has been appearing at events with SNBTS, sharing her story and asking Scots to give blood to help save lives. She said: “It’s not something young people might think of if they’ve not had any experience of anything that would directly affect them.
“I always get a good response. It’s not that people don’t want to give blood, I think it’s more that no one’s really directly asked them to so they don’t think about it.
“I’d like to do more with SNBTS because it’s important.
“I don’t think I’d change what happened. It’s made me more ambitious.”
Rachelbouncingback.blogspot.com
GIVE BLOOD TODAY
Today is World Blood Donor Day, celebrating the 108million donations made around the world every year.
The World Health Organisation say half of all donations are collected in high-income countries that are home to less than 20 per cent of the world’s population.
They are aiming to build a reliable supply of safe blood from regular, voluntary and unpaid donors around the world in order to meet their target for all countries to obtain 100 per cent of their blood supplies from this donor base.
In the UK, just four per cent of the adult population are donors.But among those kind-hearted donors, research by the SNBTS shows their No1 reason is to save a life.
It’s easy to donate and our bodies are equipped to help.
GET BACK WHAT YOU GIVE
When we give blood, just under a pint (470ml) is taken – typically just over 10 per cent of our total blood volume.
But our bodies have an amazing capacity to replace the cells and fluids lost.
Special cells in the kidneys sense the level of oxygen in the blood has decreased due to the loss of red cells. So they start secreting a protein that sends a message to the stem cells in our bone marrow to develop into red blood cells.
TIME OUT
It takes a few weeks for the red blood cells in our bodies to be completely replaced. In Scotland you must leave at least 12 weeks in between donations.
DRINK UP
Blood makes up approximately eight per cent of our body weight and about half of this is water. That’s why donors are asked to drink at least 500ml of water before they give blood.
HOW CAN I GIVE BLOOD?
Blood donations can be given at a city donor centre or at one of the regular sessions held at community centres and clubs.
It only takes about 15 minutes and each donation can help as many as three people at a time.
To register, you need to be over 17 and under 66. It’s best to visit the Can I Donate? section on scotblood.co.uk to check for any health and travel restrictions.
To register as a blood donor or find where your nearest donation session is, call 0845 90 90 999, text ‘blood’ to 61611 or log on to www.scotblood.co.uk.
