Devoted couple May and Iain Glen share everything in life – even the devastating diagnosis of breast cancer.
The husband and wife, who have been married for 42 years, were deeply shocked when Iain was told he had the disease.
Almost 11 years later, May was also given the news that she had breast cancer.
Experts say the chances of a married couple both receiving that diagnosis is extremely rare.
But 18 months on from May’s diagnosis, both grandparents feel fit and well and are keen to raise awareness that breast cancer can affect anyone – woman or man.

Iain, 63, a health and safety consultant, said: “Breast cancer is a very rare disease in men so for me to be diagnosed and then for May to be diagnosed is extremely unusual.
“I don’t know how many husbands and wives can say they have both had breast cancer – we must certainly belong to a very small group.”
May, also 63, said: “I feel for our daughter as it must be hard for her knowing that her mum and dad have had breast cancer.
“Not many people can say that about their parents but she has been a great support to us.
“She has an appointment coming up to find out if she has an increased risk of the disease.”

Iain was diagnosed in February 2002, at the age of 50, after May found spots of blood on their bed sheets.
She made an appointment for Iain with their family GP who referred him to St John’s Hospital in Livingston for tests.
The couple, of East Whitburn, West Lothian, were stunned when they were told Iain had breast cancer.
May said: “I’d seen a programme featuring a man who had been diagnosed with breast cancer but, even though I knew of the disease, I didn’t twig that the marks on the sheets could be because of that.
“They were very small spots of what looked like blood and they were always the same shape and in exactly the same place.
“It was the sort of mark you might get if you knocked the head off a spot but when I asked Iain about it, he mentioned he had been having a slight discharge from his nipple.”
Iain added: “There was no lump or pain – just a slight discharge.
“When I was referred to the hospital, they did a biopsy. But even then it never crossed either of our minds that they were checking for breast cancer.
“When we got the tests back and I was told there was a tumour, I was dumbfounded. I didn’t know men could get breast cancer.”
Only around 350 men in the UK are diagnosed with the disease each year – compared to 55,000 women.
It took the couple a week to get their heads around the shock of the diagnosis, telling only their daughter Deborah, now 35, before finally breaking the news to their other family and friends.
Iain was admitted to hospital where he had to undergo a mastectomy to remove his breast tissue.
He also had 17 lymph nodes removed from under his arm, which he was later told were clear of any sign of disease.
Iain said: “I didn’t need chemotherapy or radiotherapy but I was put on the drug tamoxifen.
“When we told people I had breast cancer, everyone was shocked and most people said they didn’t know men could get it.
“The hospital put me in touch with another man who had been diagnosed with breast cancer the year before.
“May and I went to see him and his wife one evening before my operation and it was helpful to speak to someone who had been through the same thing. I realised what I was going through was rare but not unique.”
As Iain recovered, the couple tried to put the disease behind them. But they were shocked when May was diagnosed with breast cancer in November 2013.
She said: “I had gone for a routine mammogram and thought nothing of it when I was recalled. I had been called back before.
“But when I got there, the doctor told me there was an area concerning them and, even though they couldn’t feel any lump, they did a needle biopsy and scan.
“When the tests were over and I sat outside in the car, I remember thinking, ‘Here we go’.
“I had to wait a week for the results and it was the longest week of my life. When I went back, I was ready for the worst. So when they told me it was breast cancer, I was quite calm.
“Iain was with me and we just sat there listening but, at the same time, not really taking in what we were being told.”
May had a lumpectomy at the Western General Hospital in Edinburgh followed by a course of radiotherapy.
She was also prescribed tamoxifen but came off the drug after struggling to cope with the hot flushes and extreme fatigue it caused her.
May said: “Iain and I attended different hospitals and had different treatments but having seen him go through a breast cancer diagnosis probably did make it easier for me.
“I knew a bit more than we had known when Iain was first diagnosed.”
Iain added: “In many ways, we were fortunate that we didn’t have to go through the repeated surgeries or chemotherapy that many people with breast cancer have to go through. But it still takes it toll.
“We both really struggled with the side-effects of the tamoxifen we were given but we learned that we just had to take one day at time and how important it is to have a positive mental attitude.”
May, who has seen a number of women in her family diagnosed with either breast or ovarian cancer, turned to the charity Breast Cancer Care for added support after her treatment.
She said: “Once you have been diagnosed with cancer, it does change you.
“You have to learn to move on but what you have been through never leaves you and, for me, going on the Breast Cancer Care Moving Forward course really helped me do just that.
“You have to get on with living, so we do that – enjoying nice holidays, seeing friends and spending time with our family, including our six-year-old granddaughter Amy.”
Iain added: “When I was ill, there were not even any leaflets about male breast cancer – everything was aimed at women – but that has all changed now and there is support for men too.”
Jane Murphy, clinical nurse specialist at Breast Cancer Care, said: “Breast cancer in men is very rare. So the chances of a couple being diagnosed is exceptionally rare.”
The couple are among 22 people affected by breast cancer who are taking part in Breast Cancer Care Scotland’s Fashion Show at the Radisson Blu Hotel on November 4.
Money raised from the show – which is supported by the Sunday Mail – will help the charity to provide free information and support services, such as their free four-week course Moving Forward, for people affected by breast cancer.
Approximately 4500 people in Scotland are diagnosed each year. Log on to www.breastcancercare.org.uk
