COMEDY star Greg Hemphill achieved a seemingly impossible task in his first movie – silencing Frankie Boyle.
The Still Game star wrote the part in Gasping – a short film about a man battling alcoholism – with the motormouth stand-up in mind.
But Boyle’s role has virtually no dialogue, an idea Greg hopes will make the message about the dangers of addiction even more powerful.
Gasping, which premieres at the Edinburgh Film Festival on Friday, was filmed in Glasgow over six days last summer.
Boyle plays an alcoholic who is given an ultimatum by his wife – stop drinking or it will end their marriage.
Greg, who also directed Gasping, says that keeping the dialogue to a minimum is symbolic of how alcoholism takes away your voice.
He said: “It seemed like quite a powerful thing for someone like Frankie, who is known for the things he says, being gagged, as it were.”
Greg says he wrote the part for recovering alcoholic Frankie as he knew it was a subject close to his heart.
 

He added: “It’s a subject close to many of us in Scotland. There are a lot of people in my life who have stopped drinking.
“I can see the pitfalls and dangers, but I love the social aspect of drinking, and I don’t imagine I’ll ever get to the stage of my life where I wouldn’t want to have a drink with someone.”
As you might expect from the pairing of Hemphill and Boyle, humour is at the heart of the film and Greg has no reservations about making a comedy about such a serious subject.
He said: “In Frankie’s comedy everything is a target, there are no areas you can’t go.
“But I wanted to make something warm and sympathetic to people who suffer from this illness.
“I’ve always believed that just because you make light of something doesn’t mean you treat it lightly.
“You can be funny about something without being disrespectful.”
As for making the film, Greg admits that he enjoyed being on the other side of the camera.
He said: “Making a short is a good way to get your toe in the water. It’s the best way to learn and make mistakes.
“It’s opened my eyes to what I want to do for the next 10 years, which is to direct.
“It was more fun than I thought it would be, but it can also be stressful, each night you go home and your head’s full of stuff.
“It was important to me that the set was happy and relaxed. The cast and crew will feed off that and get creative.”
Greg says he’d love to make feature-length horror and comedy movies in Scotland, genres he believes benefit from being low budget.
He added: “In a place like Scotland where there’s not a lot of money, you have to turn that into a positive. From crisis comes opportunity, so you’ve got to turn that to your advantage and just do it.”

