 MORE than 200 Scottish children under three have been referred to specialists in alcohol and drug addiction in the past year. 
The infants were among more than 2000 children needing rehab-style help on the NHS.
 Both figures are likely to be higher as some councils did not respond to our freedom of  information request. 
The vulnerable under-threes are recorded as needing expert help after exposure to substance abuse by a family member.
East Lothian Council referred 70 children to their specialist services – including unborn babies whose mothers are battling addiction.
Thousands of schoolkids are also at risk of becoming addicted to drink and drugs with almost 2500 under 16s being referred nationwide.
Of those referred for their own alcohol abuse, the youngest child was five years old from the Stirling council area.
An eight-year-old in the same area was reported for misusing drugs and was among 2425 school children whose lives will potentially be blighted by substance abuse.
Campaigners branded the statistics “worrying” and called for action on pricing, availability and marketing of alcohol.
Referrals mean a child is vulnerable to drug or alcohol misuse, either abusing substances themselves or by exposure in the family.
The figures show more than a 14 per cent increase in referrals among under-16s and where figures could be broken down, there were 613 of them for children’s own substance misuse and 1508 for relatives.
Barbara O’Donnell of Alcohol Focus Scotland said around 51,000 children in Scotland live with parents who have an alcohol problem and added: “Children are especially vulnerable to alcohol harm and it is worrying these figures suggest increase in the numbers who are affected.
“Children and young people’s brains are more vulnerable to the effects of alcohol because they are still developing.”
She said a range of child, young person and family-focussed support is vital to protect them but added: It is also critical that more is done to start to reduce the number of children, young people and families being harmed by alcohol.
“Alcohol today is so affordable, available and heavily marketed and, as a result, our children and young people are growing up in a pro-alcohol society. If we’re serious about protecting children and young people from alcohol harm we must take action on the price, availability and marketing of alcohol.”
 

The highest number of referrals from councils was Fife where a child as young as five was among 564 children sent for specialist counselling.
Mark Steven, Partnership &amp; Policy Co-ordinator for the Fife Alcohol &amp; Drug Partnership said: “The vast majority of these referrals are to provide support and therapeutic services for children whose parents misuse substances.
“We want them to understand what’s happening around them, to build their self-esteem and help them make positive choices.
“The remaining referrals are for teenagers who have personally experienced substance misuse.
“I’d reiterate these are not addicts. They are young people who have a variety of issues to cope with in their lives and we’re providing help and advice when drugs or alcohol become a factor.”
Scottish Labour justice spokesman Hugh Henry said: “It’s worrying that so many under 16’s are being referred. The tragedy is for those young people with a problem, they are often then in a spiral of addiction and crime.
“This is a wakeup call to everyone with responsibility for Scotland’s young people.”

