A message scrawled in a notebook has been judged a legally binding will after sisters went to war over a &pound;150,000 estate.
Melanie Gibson died at 52 of heart problems but had written in an A4 jotter that she wanted to leave everything to her sister Anne.
 

 
But two other sisters then insisted the handwritten message was not legally binding and the estate should be shared.
Last week, they branded a sheriff’s decision to uphold the will as “unjust and unfair”.
Melanie, who died in October 2012, wrote the message nine months prior to her death in an A4 pad she kept at home.
It names her sister Anne, 52, as the sole beneficiary of her estate, which consists of a house, car, life insurance policies and a valuable collection of crystal.
The note states: “Please remember if Anne is still alive, I want her to have my wealthy remains – the house, pension, savings and everything else…
“I hope my family accept this…It is my wish.”
 

 
 
Melanie signed and dated the note, known as a holograph, or written will, on January 20, 2012. She died in October of that year.
When she died and the notes emerged, surviving sisters were contacted by the court and asked if they objected to Anne becoming heir.
Beth Smith, 56, and Jan Graham, 60, said they did – believing Melanie’s estate should be distributed evenly among family members.
A sheriff at Livingston Sheriff Court backed their case following a hearing.
But Anne appealed this decision and Sheriff Principal Mhairi Stephen upheld the appeal, meaning the note stands as a legally recognised will. The decision has sparked anger among Melanie’s sisters.
At the original case, Sheriff Douglas Kinloch ruled that the document “lacked the necessary testamentary intention – and could not be seen as a will or testamentary writing”.
Overruling this, Sheriff Principal Stephen noted: “In my view, it is difficult to contemplate a will in clearer terms. The meaning of the document in the sense of it being a will is obvious to me.”
The court had heard Melanie had a drink problem and there had been a family falling-out prior to her death.
Melanie’s elder sister Beth said: “The notebook had pages missing so who knows what they contained. Neither Jan nor I ever saw what was in the book.
“We felt the original court case, which heard the full story, was a fair hearing but the appeal, based solely on case law, was not.”
The estate is believed to be worth around &pound;150,000, consisting of a house in Greenrigg, West Lothian, three life insurance policies, a death-in-service policy, a car and a collection of Swarovski crystal.
Administrator Beth, of Blackburn, West Lothian, said: “This was never about money or Melanie’s estate. It was about being given the chance to grieve and not be totally shut out and ignored.
“We fought this based on family values and love and we feel the way it has been dealt with is unfair and unjust.”
Anne, also of Blackburn, said: “The court has made its decision – end of story.”
A leading lawyer yesterday said the handwritten note might be legally binding but people shouldn’t take the chance of leaving behind a legal wrangle.
Solicitor Austin Lafferty said: “I’d always encourage people to take proper advice and guidance as to making a will as getting it wrong can lead to exactly this kind of situation – a family at war and a court case.”
Try your hand at our news quiz

