Grinning from ear to ear, it doesn’t look like little Peter Donaghy’s stay in hospital was too much of an ordeal.
The four-year-old, happily clutching a Christmas decoration, was cared for by a student nurse during years of treatment at the Royal Hospital for Sick Children at Glasgow’s Yorkhill .
Today, as the children’s wards at Yorkhill shut their doors, Peter looks back on his years there and remembers Nurse Bell, his best pal during a tough time.
Peter, now 35, had a growth removed from his back and spent the next five years having regular skin grafts.
It was Nurse Bell who was always there with a smile for him as he bravely endured countless painful procedures which saw skin being taken from his leg.
He said: “I don’t remember a huge amount about being in hospital, but I remember Nurse Bell.
“I was a cheeky chap and I was hiding under a bed one day. I hit my head when I was coming out and Nurse Bell consoled me.
“I think that’s the moment I fell in love. I think she was my first crush. She was so kind.
“My mum told me that Nurse Bell really liked me because I was so cheeky.
“Whenever I went missing she knew where to find me – in the cupboard playing with the toys.
“She took time to get to know me, which is so nice.
“The work they do at the hospital is fantastic. I never felt scared and I don’t remember any pain.
“I know how well they took care of me and I’m sure they will do the same at the new place.
“I know I must have met lots of nurses and doctors but Nurse Bell is the only one I really remember. It would be brilliant to see her again.”
Peter, from Scotstoun, Glasgow, was taken to Yorkhill regularly by his mother Linda, who died in 2007. She treasured the picture of her smiling son with his beloved Nurse Bell, taken in 1984.
Now an engineering teacher, Peter said: “I would love to be able to meet Nurse Bell again and to say thank you for everything she did for me.”
Founded in 1883, the Royal Hospital for Sick Children moved to the Yorkhill site in July 1914, just weeks before the start of the Great War.
A public appeal had raised almost &pound;140,000 to build the new hospital and 10,000 people came to see King George V perform the official opening.
Tomorrow, all in-patients, outpatients and A&amp;E will have moved to the new Southern General campus.
A final decision on the old Yorkhill building has not been made, although it will be used for some of the old Western Infirmary facilities until next year.
Over the years, Yorkhill has treated tens of thousands of youngsters.
Jemma Ritchie, from Gartcosh, Lanarkshire, spent many Christmases and birthdays at the hospital because of her chronic asthma.
At one point, Jemma, now 18, was at the hospital every weekend.
She said: “I was diagnosed with chronic asthma at 10 months old. They don’t normally diagnose it until children are older but they did more tests on me as my brother, father and aunt all have asthma.
“I was in and out of Yorkhill all the time.
“I only ever saw my mum being upset once and that was when the doctors thought my heart was going to stop and I was taken to the High Dependency Unit.”
Jemma said she has met dozens of doctors, nurses and specialists and describes them as “brilliant”.
She said: “There were times I would go into hospital and I would be panicking because I wasn’t breathing properly. But the staff were brilliant and calmed me down.
“I was in so often they all knew me. I have seen how good they all are. I had a friend who I met while I was in hospital. Unfortunately, she died on her 18th birthday.
“I was due to be transferred to the adult services and found out I was pregnant when I was 16.
“Since then, my asthma has been completely fine. It’s amazing.
“My daughter Emily is 14 months, which is around the same age I was when I started going to hospital.
“I feel nostalgic about the hospital moving. It was like a second home for me at times. I’ve marked so many occasions there.”
Another former Yorkhill patient is Fiona Stewart, now 45. She was born with a club foot and had to have a series of operations in the 1970s to correct it.
The mum-of-one, from Renfrew, was just five when she had her first operation.
She said: “I remember travelling with my mum from Nitshill by bus. I remember I always had fun at the hospital and it was never scary. It was almost like a day out.”
Fiona said that the staff and the environment at Yorkhill were fabulous. She added: “I remember getting help with my reading and there being so many kind people.
“I had my leg in a cast over the summer and was not able to play in a paddling pool like the other children
“But I feel very lucky that they were able to fix what was wrong.
“I am a runner and I go dancing and it has never impacted on my life.
“That is thanks to the people at Yorkhill.”

