AN ARTISTIC tribute has been paid to two Scottish veterans who gave their all on Normandy’s beaches in the largest amphibious invasion in history.
The stunning portraits of the courageous soldiers as they look today are displayed alongside images taken as they headed into battle on D-day 71 years ago.
The 12-painting exhibition – opened yesterday by the Prince of Wales – is on show at the Queen’s Gallery, in Buckingham Palace, and includes two Scots now in their 90s – Captain Brian Stewart and Dr Tom Renouf.
Called The Last of the Tide, the images commemorate the invasion of German-occupied France that involved 7700 ships and 12,000 aircraft.
The men all served in regiments with which the Prince of Wales and the Duchess of Cornwall have a formal association.
Each portrait has been created by a different artist, including Jonathan Yeo, and winners of the BP Portrait Award, Catherine Goodman, James Lloyd, Ishbel Myerscough and Stuart Pearson Wright.
Captain Stewart, who lives near Crieff, Perthshire, was the anti-tank platoon commander with 1st Battalion, Tyneside Scottish, landing on July 15. He helped rescue comrades in the 8th Battalion of the Parachute Regiment who were cut off for several days in their bid to destroy the bridges over the River Dives.
The 93-year-old ex-MI6 officer – the father of Tory MP Rory Stewart – spent four days with artist Paul Benney talking about lurcher dogs.
 

His family love the painting but he feared it didn’t make him look “too happy”.
He said: “People know me as always smiling and being quite happy – I think it makes me looks slightly lost and quizzical. I don’t spend my life frowning. When I expressed my doubts to Rory he said that painters have to find a way between The Laughing Cavalier and the Mona Lisa. The process was good fun – Paul and I have lurchers so that helped break the ice and gave us something to talk about.”
Captain Stewart arrived in France in the days following the landings.
 

He added: “I felt bloody lucky to come rolling down off a landing ship instead of charging through the water being machine-gunned. But then I was never in the front row. Anti-tank gunners were there to defend the battalion. We didn’t charge forward like horse artillery and have a bash. They had a bad habit of sticking snipers up trees. But I had a bad habit of shooting at snipers up trees.”
His most vivid memories are from the armoured battle close to the village of Rauray, in Normandy.
He said: “It was awe-inspiring. Grey dawn, first light. Rumble, rumble – Panther armoured group. It was an ominous sound.”
Dr Tom Renouf, from Musselburgh, near Edinburgh, served with the 5th Battalion Black Watch and ended the war as a lieutenant.
 

The 90-year-old jazz pianist – who was painted by Clara Drummond – spent most of the Channel crossing entertaining comrades on the ship’s piano prior to landing at Gold beach to relieve the Paras.
He said: “Any sane person was afraid. How else were you expected to behave when you knew you were going to be killed?”
 
He was eventually wounded on the advance from Caen to Lisieux when a bullet just missed his spine.
He added: “I felt something hot running down my back.
“I went walking back, not feeling a thing, and pulled an apple off a tree and munched it.”
Dr Renouf was later part of the squad that captured Heinrich Himmler in Germany and still has the military tyrant’s watch.
He said: “It was sheer luck we took him. He was dressed as a postman. After the war this death sentence hanging over us was lifted. It was like being born over again.”
Prince Charles said: “It seemed a tragedy there were no portraits of D-day veterans, hence this collection of remarkable old soldiers.”

