POLICE chief Sir Stephen House has been criticised for snubbing a dinner for leaders of Scotland’s Muslim community for the third year running.
The country’s most senior officer was due to speak to 550 diners at the prestigious Pakistani Welfare Trust event last Sunday but suddenly pulled out late on the Friday before.
Instead, the under-fire Chief Constable sent his deputy, Iain Livingstone, to represent him at the three-hour bash at The Normandy Hotel in Renfrew.
The guest list included Deputy First Minister John Swinney as well as respected members of the Scottish Asian business and political community.
Trust general secretary Muhammad Shoaib and president Shahid Farook both criticised the police chief’s absence in front of the guests.
Diners were told House had declined two previous invites to attend the dinner.
Both men also slated recent police stop-and-search figures which showed that ethnic minorities such as Pakistanis in Scotland were four times more likely to be targeted.
Shoaib told guests: “Stephen House must find time to come here and listen to us.”
Swinney was standing in for First Minister Nicola Sturgeon who was in New York.
 

Other top-table guests included Scottish Lib Dem leader Willie Rennie, Labour MSP Jackie Baillie, the SNP’s Humza Yousaf and former Scottish Tory leader Baroness Annabel Goldie.
One diner said: “The two men had a real go at Stephen House for not being there. They said he has snubbed the event for the last three years.
“Iain Livingstone then had to sit through an attack on the force’s stop-and-search policy for being biased against Pakistanis.”
House has endured a stormy ride over the last year when his force and his leadership have taken flak over a range of issues from stop and search to crime figures, and Shoaib says dinner organisers were disappointed that did not attend.
He added: “This is a high-profile event in our community. Sir Stephen House was the only VIP guest invited who did not turn up.
“We also had between 30 and 40 members of parliament, council chief executives and three Lord Provosts.
“Alex Salmond, Jack McConnell and Donald Dewar all came when they were First Minister. I don’t think Sir Stephen realises how big this event is. He did not attend our dinner when he was Chief Constable of Strathclyde Police, though his predecessor Willie Rae did.”
Shoaib, a former organiser of Asians for Independence, hit the headlines in April when he defected to Labour from the SNP before the general election.
He added: “The guests at the dinner represented 63 per cent of Scotland’s Pakistani business community, including the owners of two of Europe’s biggest cash and carry firms.
“It would have been good to have Sir Stephen here, particularly as so many other important people were able to attend.
“We only found out he was not coming on the Friday when we contacted his secretary.”
Shoaib, 62, who runs an asylum immigration consultancy in Glasgow, says there is concern at the number of Pakistanis being stopped and searched.
House has come under fire over the policy, which saw 640,699 searches carried out in one 12-month period, including children.
Police Scotland said: “The Chief Constable was unfortunately unable to attend due to previous commitments.
“It is not true to suggest the Pakistani community are four times more likely to be subject to a stop-search in Scotland.
“We recognise stop and search can be a valuable tactic for keeping people safe when intelligently used.”

