One hundred foreign &shy;criminals have been kicked out of Scotland in the last year, we can reveal.
They were sent back to their country of origin either because they were &shy;reoffenders or had previous &shy;convictions there for rape, violence or other serious offences.
A further 50 are facing extradition to countries across the world.
The crooks are among more than 9000 foreigners arrested here over the past 12 months.
Police Scotland say they have stepped up action against foreign criminals thanks to the International Assistance Unit – based at the &pound;75million Scottish Crime Campus in Gartcosh, Lanarkshire.
We can reveal that since May last year, 9511 foreigners were taken into police custody in Scotland for crimes ranging from murder to shoplifting.
One Bulgarian man stopped by police for a minor traffic offence in Edinburgh had raped a six-year-old girl and a woman and was a registered sex offender in his country. He has been deported.
Another 3827 foreigners were stopped by police in the last nine months for more minor offences such as traffic violations and drinking in public, and given fixed penalties.
They came from 62 countries &shy;including every EU country bar &shy;Luxembourg, as well as Angola, &shy;Zimbabwe, Paraguay, Swaziland and New Zealand. Arrests even included a Bedouin tribesman.
The International Assistance Unit, set up in May last year, is under the command of Detective Inspector &shy;Lorraine Henderson and works with the Home Office as part of Operation Nexus.
The team of 13 detectives target &shy;foreigners who commit crime here, have criminal records in their own countries or have international &shy;warrants out for their arrest.
The unit help with the extradition and deportation of criminals from Scotland back to their home country and monitors foreign criminals who remain here.
Assistant Chief Constable Ruaraidh Nicolson, head of serious crime and organised terrorism for Police &shy;Scotland, says they are dedicated to identifying and removing those who continue to offend.
Foreigners arrested in the last year &shy;represent only five per cent of all &shy;offenders taken into police custody.
Nicolson added: “We are focusing on high-harm offenders who commit serious violent crimes and those who commit lower-level crimes but are more &shy;prolific.
“The lower-level &shy;individuals are &shy;causing havoc in our &shy;communities, whether it is &shy;drunkenness, &shy;shoplifting or &shy;housebreaking
“Am I concerned that there are &shy;foreign national offenders with significant convictions that we obviously know about? Yes, of course. But it has to be kept in proportion.
“It is about knowing who we have in our communities and continuing to work to exclude them from the &shy;country.
“With about 100 foreign immigration and criminal offenders removed in the first year of Operation Nexus alone, this shows the commitment of both the Home Office and Police Scotland to rid Scottish communities of the risk that these offenders pose and keep people safe.”
Among those deported was Jordanas Lideika, 22 , from Lithuania who was kicked out after he was caught in &shy;Glasgow for shoplifting.
He had nine previous convictions here, 12 pending cases and eight in England, many for theft, possession of drugs and drunkeness. Lideika also had a criminal record in Lithuania for bribery and aggravated theft.
A 30-year-old Nigerian man arrested for traffic offences in Lanarkshire was also wanted by the Metropolitan Police on drugs charges and deported in March.
A 49-year-old Lithuanian man arrested for offences in Aberdeenshire, including assault, theft, house-&shy;breaking, breach of bail and &shy;shoplifting, was deported in April.
The unit were also responsible for the extradition of Latvian murderer Tatjana Kurlankova last month.
The 31-year-old was part of a robbery gang who tortured and killed an elderly woman in her home.
Mum-of-two Kurlankova was released on parole in 2013 but fled to Scotland. She was given an on-the-spot fine for drinking in the street in &shy;Glasgow in January this year.
The unit discovered that the Latvian authorities had issued an international arrest warrant for the evil killer and she was sent back to Latvia.
Henderson said: “When Police &shy;Scotland became one we decided to set up a single unit to deal with &shy;international criminality.
“It was an opportunity to pull &shy;everything together and to make sure we were all dealing with it in the same way.
“We monitor foreign national &shy;offenders who come to our attention and are in regular contact with police forces across Europe and futher afield.
“All the people you have mentioned have now been removed from our &shy;communities.”
Around 80 per cent of foreign &shy;nationals who come to the attention of the police are taken into custody and 20 per cent, like Kurlankova, are given fixed penalties.
Detective Chief Superintendent Ricky Mason, head of the Police &shy;Scotland Specialist Crime Division, believes they have the &shy;situation under control and is not unduly concerned about the numbers of foreigners being detained.
He added: “There is no suggestion that Scotland is a magnet for &shy;international criminals.
“It is just that are our systems are getting better at identifying them.
“We think the numbers of foreign nationals being arrested are &shy;proportionate to the Scottish &shy;population here.
“I would be concerned if it was far higher.”
In recent years foreign nationals have been responsible for horrific crimes in Scotland, including several high-profile murders.
Notorious cases include that of Lithuanian Vitas Plytnykas, 41, jailed for life in March, 2008, for killing Jolanta Bledaite, 35, whose dismembered remains were found in Arbroath.
Plytnykas had been convicted of manslaughter in Germany before &shy;arriving in Britain.
In May the same year, Slovakian Marek Harcar, 33, raped and murdered businesswoman Moira Jones, 40, in a park yards from her Glasgow home.
He entered Scotland despite having 13 previous convictions, &shy;including four for violence.
This year, Robert Buczek, 24, from Poland, was jailed for a minimum of 20 years for the murder of Eleanor Whitelaw, 85, in her Edinburgh home.
He had a previous conviction in his homeland, for attacking a pensioner when he was just 14.
Police Scotland yesterday described the number of arrested foreigners with previous convictions in their own country as “significant” but were &shy;unable to give an exact figure.
Home Office Immigration Minister James Brokenshire said: “The success of Operation Nexus in Scotland over the last 12 months proves that foreign nationals who continue to offend in the UK will be arrested and removed.”
 

 
 
Angel Tolev drove down an Edinburgh street clearly marked with a no-entry sign.
But what should’ve resulted in a fine led to the 37-year-old being arrested by police shocked at his horrific past. Checks revealed Tolev had a string of convictions in Bulgaria – including raping a six-year-old girl and a woman.
A registered sex offender in his own &shy;country, he had also been jailed for &shy;robbery and assault. He’d left Bulgaria without telling the authorities - but they had him back after the International Assistance Unit told the Home Office to kick him out.
Andrejs Treikals embarked on a one-man crimewave from virtually the moment he arrived from Latvia.
The jobless 31-year-old quickly racked up a depressing number of arrests and court appearances. He had 46 convictions in the UK and 11 pending charges in Scotland. Most of time the homeless crook, who had 15 previous addresses, spent his time &shy;wandering around in a drunken haze.
But the International Assistance Unit called time on his stay after picking him up in Glasgow on an alcohol-related charge.
He was eventually deported in April.
Try your hand at our news quiz

