IF Sheila Reid has enjoyed her  time in the sun in Benidorm,  she is much more at home in  the shade.
At 77, the actress is immediately  recognisable from her role in the  long-running, award-winning comedy  as the mean-spirited, mobility scooter- driving Madge Harvey.
Where the character is a perma-tanned chain-smoker with a sharp, wicked tongue, however, Sheila is charming, considerate and softly-spoken.
She is also as bright as a button and  bursting with enthusiasm, enjoying the opportunities which come her way, the latest of which is starring in The Driver’s  Seat, the National Theatre of Scotland’s  adaptation of Muriel Spark’s book.
Sheila is at home on stage and has  performed with the very best, something which the fame Madge has brought her tends to obscure.
But she is too long in the tooth to complain, preferring to dwell on the positives.
She said: “What I love about the recognition Benidorm has given me is it makes people happy.
“I have had people coming up to me in the street saying their  husband is ill in hospital and the only thing  which cheers him up is Benidorm and he loves me and my character.
“That is like the biggest bunch of flowers  anybody could give  you. It really is.
“It’s also a wonderful part. If I had been given the part of Madge on stage, it would have been amazing but how wonderful to have played her for eight years.
“The only downside is that people do think of me in that role a bit but it’s wonderful to be back on stage here, doing a very different thing. That is what I have always loved about work – playing different characters.”
Born in Glasgow, she grew up in Bridge of Weir, Renfrewshire , before her family moved to India and beyond when she was seven.
 

She said: “We went to India because my father was in the Army. It was the time of partition and it was quite scary. We would be out playing in the park, there would be gunfire and we’d have to be rushed off on the back of a bicycle.”
Schooled in England and now based in London with her husband Terry Bullen,  Sheila has never lost her love of Scotland.
But she is conscious that some, more  accustomed to the northern accent she uses as Madge, will think her an interloper.
She said: “I married a Cockney but, apart from that, I don’t know why I’m not here. We left when I was seven but I feel deeply Scottish. I know there will be a lot of Scottish actresses who will be saying, ‘I should be playing that part,’ but I am Scottish.”
Her talent is not in any doubt either. She has enjoyed a long and successful career which has encompassed film, TV and theatre. And she has worked with a huge range of stars, from Maggie Smith, Ralph Richardson and John Gielgud to Ingmar Bergman and Peter Capaldi.
And she has taken on roles as diverse as a granny to Doctor Who’s assistant to a  cigarette-puffing Mother Teresa in Sky Arts comedy series Psychobitches.
Sheila got her first big break in 1963, starring in Half A Sixpence with Tommy Steele, and was a member of Laurence Olivier’s original National Theatre company, staying there for seven years and working closely with the famed actor.
She said: “I was sitting at my agent’s office one day and the phone rang. He picked it up, spoke to someone, then turned to me and said, ‘Can you sing?’ I said yes and he said, ‘Right, I’ll send Sheila along.’ And that was me in Half A Sixpence.
“John Dexter directed and he was director at the National Theatre when I went for my audition and that was seven years with Laurence Olivier and so many others. You can imagine the training that gave you.
“Olivier would make a model of the set and he would have wee people that he would move around at home and he would come and tell us that’s where we would move.
“Sometimes you would have the courage to say, ‘Could I possibly try a different move?’ And he would say, ‘Yes, baby, of course.’ But you would go back and say, ‘Can I have your move back please?’ Because he was always right, maddeningly.
“I have been incredibly lucky working with so many people – Trevor Howard in Sir Henry At Rawlinson End. He liked a bottle, as we all know, and he would get rollicking but as soon as it was action, it was like a light going on and he was right there, absolutely, totally, there.
“And he was so generous. He would ring me up and say, ‘I have been sent this film script and I think there is a part in it for you and I am going to suggest you.’ I mean, how lucky is that?”
Sheila has had a number of appearances in films and shows which have enjoyed longevity and cult status, including Terry Gilliam’s 1985 film Brazil, which featured Robert De Niro.
She also starred in Doctor Who in 1985 – before returning as the grandmother of the Time Lord’s assistant Clara, played by Jenna Coleman, in 2013 and 2014.
She said: “With Brazil, all I was aware of was the generosity of Terry Gilliam. He has a mind like a chameleon, an extraordinary imagination but he was so sensitive.
“I was in the opening scene and he shut the set so it was just him, me and the cameramen and I was able to give it everything.
“Doctor Who was lovely, although it was a bit alarming looking back at my original episodes. At the time, I was thinking I better take some weight off but I look at it now  thinking I wasn’t too bad.”
It’s not all been plain sailing but, when she did hit a rough patch, she put her future in her hands, quite literally.
She said: “When I was in my 40s, when you feel you can do anything, that was my lean time. I did a couple of one-person shows and I also thought, ‘Well, get on with it,’ so I did a massage course. I enjoyed that and it still makes me popular with different productions – the thumbs in the shoulders are always a good way of getting in.
“I have had lean periods but, mostly, I have been extraordinarily lucky.”
She feels her good fortune is smiling upon her once again with The Driver’s Seat, which opened last night at the Royal Lyceum in Edinburgh, where it will play until June 27 before heading to Tramway in Glasgow from July 2 to 4.
Adapted and directed by NTS artistic director Laurie Sansom, the darkly comic thriller is about a young woman travelling alone to an unnamed European city searching for “the one” while,  elsewhere, police hunt for a killer.
The stars includes Morven Christie, Ivan Castiglione, Ryan Fletcher and Gabriel Quigley. Sheila said: “It’s a  fantastic cast – everybody is brilliant. I look at them and my mouth drops.
“The joy of working with Morven is fabulous. I know there is a generation where people think things are different but acting isn’t different because it’s about communication – it’s about listening, generosity of spirit, being open and free – and all those things she has in abundance.”
Beyond The Driver’s Seat, she has other projects in the pipeline, including a return to Benidorm . Well, a star can’t stay in the shade for ever.

