SCOTLAND’S first ever billionaire is set to help children’s charities all over the country by backing the Kiltwalk.
Sir Tom Hunter, who was the country’s richest man until 2007, has vowed to provide long-term funding and support for the tartan-themed Scottish charity walks.
 

The Kiltwalk has now become one of the country’s biggest charity events and has seen thousands walking specific routes around Scotland in kilts and plaids of tartan.
Tomorrow, a new board of trustees will take over the running of the charity.
Sir Tom Hunter, serial entrepreneur and Scotland’s first home-grown billionaire, said: “The Kiltwalk is a fantastic concept for raising much needed funds for Scotland’s children’s charities and has our absolute support.

“We intend over the next couple of months to redefine and improve the model, building on the foundations already in place, to maximize returns for charities and turbo-charge Scotland’s Kiltwalkers for 2016.”
Over the past three years, the charity has raised more than &pound;4.7m.
On April 12 this year, 5200 Scots walked 26-miles from Glasgow to Balloch on the banks of Loch Lomond.
It was a day out for families, power walkers and community groups.
Many also took part to pay tribute to their loved ones.

The Daily Record is the official media partner for the effort which has four other Scottish fundraising events organised for this year - which include the Perth, Dundee, and Speyside Kiltwalks.
Participants can choose to donate their money to any of the event’s 17 charity partners including Yorkhill Children’s Charity and the Sunday Mail Centenary Fund.
Michael Ure, outgoing chair of The Kiltwalk, said: “The retiring board of trustees leave safe in the knowledge that after what has been a turbulent period, we are delighted to have secured the future of The Kiltwalk through the involvement of Sir Tom Hunter and the Hunter Foundation.
“We have overseen phenomenal growth and passion for The Kiltwalk since 2010 and look forward to this exciting new chapter, aimed at raising even more money for children’s charities across Scotland and, of course, our Scottish kids.”
The new board will announce a number of innovations to The Kiltwalk for 2016 once the walks already scheduled for 2015 are completed.

