 Former Brentford boss Mark Warburton will sign a deal with Rangers to become the Scottish Championship club's new manager within the next 24 hours. 
 The 52-year-old Englishman will be assisted by Rangers' former captain, David Weir, the pair having worked together at Griffin Park. 
 Talks are understood to be at an advanced stage between the duo and the Glasgow outfit. 
 Despite speculation, there is no role for former Valencia coach Ian Cathro. 
 Warburton told BBC Scotland earlier this month he was confident he and Weir had the right attributes for the job. 
 He said then that the Rangers role was more than about merely &quot;steadying&quot; the club. 
 &quot;Whoever comes in must appreciate the size of the task in terms of the history of the club and where they have to be,&quot; the former Watford youth coach said. 
 &quot;This is about making significant progress in a designated period of time.&quot; 
 Last week, Rangers chairman Dave King said there were five in the running for the position. 
 Cathro, 28, left his role assisting Valencia manager Nuno Espirito Santo last week for family reasons and had been linked with the Ibrox job after returning to Scotland. 
 Stuart McCall, part of the Scotland management team, had taken over the Rangers manager's role in March on a temporary basis when Kenny McDowall resigned. 
 He led the club to the Scottish Premiership play-off final but lost to his former club, Motherwell. 
 Warburton became Brentford manager following Uwe Rosler's departure in December 2013, two years after joining them as first-team coach. 
 Weir became Warburton's assistant at the west London club a week after his managerial appointment. 
 In his two years as a coach at Brentford, Warburton oversaw the opening of their new academy and was the co-founder of the NextGen series, a European club competition for under-19s that ran for two seasons between 2011 and 2013. 
 As manager, he took the Bees from League One to the Championship in 2013-14 - their first time in English football's second tier since 1992-93 - and last season his team were beaten in the play-off semi-final by Middlesbrough. 
 The club announced in February that Warburton, a former City trader, would leave this summer. 
