RESIDENTS living next to the spot where dad-of-two Sheku Bayoh was held by police have told how officers came back to scour the area for a knife the day after his death.
Residents on Kirkcaldy’s Hayfield Road and Hendry Road also revealed they have been questioned by detectives and the police watchdog in the six weeks since Sheku died.
Another person living in flats overlooking the scene told how officers had the area taped off by 9am on the morning Sheku, 31, died.
Photos taken on his phone show a white-suited forensic officer on the scene within hours of the incident unfolding.

Up to a dozen officers may have been involved in restraining Sheku before he was pronounced dead at the nearby Victoria Hospital just after 9am.
It followed a call from a taxi driver saying he was brandishing a knife.
Sheku was at the centre of a scuffle and died around two hours later – possibly from asphyxia after being restrained.
Floral tributes lie on a fading shrine at the scene under the message: “RIP – Veritas et aequitas – truth and justice.”

Scotland’s Police Investigations and Review Commissioner is investigating the conduct of officers and the subsequent police investigation into the events of Sunday, May 3.
Sheku’s family have condemned delays in the officers involved giving statements to investigators.
The independent investigators also issued an appeal on Friday for the drivers of nine vehicles spotted near the scene at the time to come forward.
One man, who lives next to the spot where Sheku was detained in Kirkcaldy, Fife, said: “Most people were still asleep when the incident happened but there were officers here for many hours afterwards.

“A couple of days later, a group of about 10 police went through all the gardens here looking for a weapon.
“They scoured people’s flower beds and hedges but, as far as I am aware, they did not find what they were looking for.
“The PIRC officers have also been back to speak to us.
“Whatever happened, people are keen that the authorities get to the bottom of it for the sake of all those involved.”
Ross Goodall, 45, who lives in flats overlooking the scene, said: “I got up before 8am and could see a police presence at the roundabout.
“I went and asked what was happening. The police said it was nothing to do with me.
“A few days later, I had officers at the door saying they were from the PIRC.”
Neighbour Louise Smith said: “There were police all over the place when we got up just after 9am. They were at the scene all day. We are hearing so many versions of what happened. The whole thing is terrible.”
Resident Margaret Haig added: “It’s a very sad incident for everyone involved.”
Sheku, who lived a few hundred yards from the spot where he was tackled by police, had spent the early hours of May 3 watching the Floyd Mayweather v Manny Pacquiao boxing match on TV.
It’s understood police were called by a local taxi driver who claimed he saw a man brandishing a knife. Four officers, including at least one female, are understood to have approached Sheku near a roundabout in the town.
What happened next is unclear although, by 7.30am, the female officer had been injured and Sheku was unconscious.
Police involved have agreed to provide statements to the PIRC.
A PIRC spokeswoman said: “We have had a good response following Friday’s appeal for the drivers of nine vehicles identified on CCTV to come forward.
“We would still urge anyone recognising their own vehicle, or the vehicle of someone they know, from the images to contact PIRC investigators on 01698 543 291 or at www.pirc.scotland.gov.uk.”
Chief Superintendent Garry McEwan said: “Police Scotland remain committed to co-operating fully with the PIRC’s inquiries.
“I would again like to offer my condolences to the family.”
