 THE police blitz on the Arches will discourage other clubs from coming clean on drugs, a leading promoter has warned. 
The renowned venue has gone under after police opposed the renewal of its licence.
But promoter Ricky Magowan fears the move will discourage other venues from reporting drug-related incidents.
The Colours boss said: “The Arches worked with the police 100 per cent.
“Anything that anyone was caught with had to be reported to the police at their request and the venue did that.
“With hindsight because they were the most upfront, honest and forward-thinking with the police, it’s been used against them. That is shocking and sends out the wrong message.”
 The Arches agreed to full disclosure on drug use after the death of Regane &shy;MacColl, 17, in February 2014. 
But they faced calls for closure in March this year when a woman &shy;collapsed outside and 26 arrests were made for drug and alcohol offences during a live radio &shy;broadcast. Police forced that club night to end an hour early.
The club and arts venue went into administration last week after the city’s licensing board ordered it to close each day at midnight after police called for curbs.
The venue hosted  theatre and other arts events but bosses say the club nights underpinned the other events &shy;financially.
Councillors and police blamed a “culture of drug misuse” for the decision to cut the hours.
 The move prompted a wave of protest from clubbers and leading arts figures , who said the club’s procedure of reporting every drugs find had been used against it. 
Magowan, 45, said: “If the police made that demand with any bar or club in the whole of &shy;Scotland and the owners complied, they’d get similar results.
“We have to live in the real world here. People take drugs.
“Unfortunately their &shy;willingness to co-operate has been used against them, and I can tell you there won’t be many club owners happy to do that again if it will make them lose their business.”
 

Club owner Donald McLeod, who heads a body which brings the licensed trade into &shy;negotiations with police, said: “I think the police have put their case but I am &shy;questioning whether the licensing board’s decision is flawed.
“It has opened a huge can of worms and from my point of view it is threatening the partnership between the licensed trade and the police, one that has been slowly building and was getting better.
“We’re using digital radio &shy;network, CCTV, all with one focus, the duty of care of customers and staff. Incidents of violence have gone down but there is a real &shy;problem in that it’s not one size fits all.
“There are 1200 licensees in &shy;Glasgow who now don’t know where they stand. The relationship is being eroded.”
The decision to cut The Arches’ club hours was taken by just four of the eight councillors on &shy;Glasgow’s licensing board.
Arches bosses said that over the period looked at by the board, 0.14 per cent of 250,000 clubbers were reported for drug misuse.
 Yesterday, of the politicians  who voted, councillor John McLaughlin said: “Anyone  who thinks The Arches going  into administration was the  direct result of our decision is naive. 
“I believe there are a whole range of factors behind it. There have been problems in the past. They voluntarily introduced an &shy;over-21s-only policy, and that lasted three months.
“They reversed it without &shy;consultation because it was not economically viable.
“The decision we took was &shy;reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances. I do regret that Glasgow could be losing a cultural venue but we took our decision based on evidence.”
Licensing board chairman Bill Butler and fellow board members Matt Kerr and Marie Garrity did not return the Sunday Mail’s calls.
Four other licensing board members were not at the meeting when The Arches’s fate was sealed.
Oner of them, Anderston/City councillor Dr Nina Baker, said: “All licensing board decisions  are based on the evidence &shy; provided on the day, the licensing legislation and objectives and our own local policy.”
Councillor Josephine Docherty said: “The Arches had been up in front of the board several times before, and there were several interventions by the police.
“I don’t know how I would have voted but I suspect I may have gone with the result.”
Councillor Anne Simpson said: “It wouldn’t be proper for me to give you a statement.”
Licensing board vice-chair Judith Fisher was unavailable for comment.

