The founder of troubled arts venue the Arches has said Glasgow's cultural profile will be damaged by its loss. 
Andy Arnold, who set up the venue in 1991, said he was upset to hear it had gone into administration after losing its late night licence. 
The restriction followed police complaints about drug abuse and disorder.
About 40,000 people have signed a petition calling for a reinstatement of the licence. 
The Scottish government said it would look at ways of safeguarding the venue's future and talks are continuing between Creative Scotland, Glasgow Life and Glasgow City Council.
When Mr Arnold set up the Arches it was an unusual business model, with profits from a cabaret club, Cafe Loco, helping fund other arts activity. 
But gradually that was replaced by regular club nights, attracting up to 1,800 people, and accounting for more than half of the Arches' turnover. 
The early closing times, imposed by the city's licensing board, were said to have cut total revenues and made the business model &quot;untenable&quot;.
Mr Arnold said: &quot;I'm extremely sad that this has happened and feel particularly for the long-serving and hard-working staff.
&quot;Most of all, Glasgow has lost a unique and extraordinary arts venue - a breeding ground for so much artistic talent - and the cultural profile of this city will be damaged as a result.&quot;
Mr Arnold left in the Arches in 2009, for a post at the Tron Theatre, because he felt the model was no longer sustainable and that a new approach was needed.
He said something had to be found to replace &quot;the big clubs nights, that earned the serious money&quot;.
He added: &quot;I'm disappointed that there hasn't actually been a more vigorous attempt to try and find other ways of commercial entertainment.
&quot;I think to try and re-establish them [the club nights] would be a waste of time.&quot;
A group of 400 creative voices, including author Irvine Welsh, members of Mogwai, Belle &amp; Sebastian and Franz Ferdinand, have signed an open letter calling on the Scottish government and creative bodies to ensure the Arches remains as an arts venue.
