SHOCKING examples of G4S security guards sleeping on the job should set alarm bells ringing.
These aren’t just people looking after buildings late at night. They are supposed to be guarding murderers and gangsters.
 The Record has lifted the lid on serious lapses of professionalism . 
And the root cause is clear. Anyone forced to work 12-hour shifts, or longer, is going to struggle to stay sharp.
In one case, a guard caught napping was later asked to do a marathon 22-hour shift.
In another, a former cop turned guard was found sleeping in a room in hospital instead of keeping watch on murderer Tony Malloy.
G4S appear to be struggling after taking over the contract from Reliance to transport prisoners.
Whistleblowers say bosses are driving workers to exhaustion.
Clearly, that is a terrifying prospect for the guards – and the public they are supposed to be keeping safe.
 You’re history 
UNHINGED historian David Starkey clearly doesn’t care who he offends, or he would have taken a vow of silence years ago.
His latest bout of foot-in-mouth included a comparison between the SNP and Nazis. He also said Nationalists blame the English, as Hitler blamed Jews, for all society’s ills.
And just in case anyone thought this was a partisan attack on the SNP and their supporters, he had something to say about the national flag. The Saltire, according to Starkey, is like the swastika – a twisted cross.
Anyone who had a passing interest in the independence referendum saw what a peaceful democratic process looks like.
Yes, some very angry people took to social media. Many so-called cybernats are an often unpleasant and aggressive part of any debate.
But they suddenly look quite reasonable in Starkey’s presence.
He should be treated for what he is – a self-styled high-brow version of rent-a-gob Katie Hopkins.
 DIY crimebuster 
 THE police said “they would see what they could do” when Jamie Rooney’s car was nicked . 
Anyone who has heard these dreaded words after a housebreaking or a car theft knows exactly what they mean.
The police, with hundreds of other crimes to solve, will get round to it – but it’s not going to be a priority.
But Jamie didn’t just shrug and assume he’d never see the car again. He used social media to track down the culprit.
The result? Within 12 hours, he had located the stolen car and sent police to the exact address of the thief, who was then lifted.
If only Police Scotland had the same up-and-at-em attitude as Jamie, crime clear-up rates would be through the roof.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

