THE HEARTBROKEN family of three people who died in the Glasgow bin lorry tragedy claim they were mistreated by a leading Crown Office official when they began questioning the investigation into the crash.
Jacqueline and Matthew McQuade say they felt browbeaten and bullied after the meeting and were accused of “splitting hairs” when the raised issues.
Their 18-year-old daughter, Erin, died in the tragedy along with her grandparents, Lorraine and Jack Sweeney, who she was out shopping with when the vehicle ran out of control in Queen Street four days before Christmas last year.
The Scottish Sun has reported how the McQuades met a senior procurator fiscal, David Green, to discuss the progress of the investigation in March.
They claim that Green, the head of the fatalities unit, “showed no compassion” and discouraged them from pursuing a civil action because their compensation was “in the bag”.
But a spokesman for the Crown Office said Green denies the claims: “He has never used offensive and unacceptable language of this nature at any time during his many years in the job.”
 

The Fatal Accident Inquiry into the incident is due to begin next month and the McQuades had asked if this allowed enough time for all the evidence and statements to be considered.
They say that Green’s response was: “Oh you can’t win with some people, you get it in the neck if it drags on too long and you get it in the neck if it’s too soon.”
When they mentioned the possibility of a private prosecution, they claim Green said: “You don’t need to bother about civil, your money’s in the bag.”
They also questioned the differing accounts of the number of seconds between Erin being hit and the vehicle stopping. Police first told them 14 seconds, then said it might have been 19. Green said 22 seconds.
The McQuades say he dismissed their questions as “splitting hairs”.
Sheriff John Beckett QC will oversee the FAI, which will also examine technical evidence relating to the bin lorry and whether it was appropriate that it took the route it did through Glasgow city centre on December 22.
He was appointed to replace Sheriff Principal Craig Scott who withdrew last month after realising that he knew one of the victims.
Miss McQuade and her grandparents Jack, 68, and Lorraine, 69, all from Dumbarton, West Dunbartonshire, died when the truck lost control in Queen Street.
Stephenie Tait, 29, and Jacqueline Morton, 51, both from Glasgow, and Gillian Ewing, 52, from Edinburgh, were also killed when the vehicle mounted the pavement before crashing into the side of the Millennium Hotel in George Square.
More Glasgow news
