OVERWORKED and inexperienced G4S prisoner guards are falling asleep on the job while in charge of killers and drug dealers, &shy;whistleblowers have warned.
Insiders blame the scandal on a staffing crisis caused by swingeing cuts and layoffs at the private security giants.
One guard on a 12-hour shift was caught snoring in a room at Wishaw General Hospital while he should have been watching vicious murderer Tony Malloy.
Another nodded off at Gartnavel Hospital in Glasgow when he was supposedly guarding dealer Niki Hunter, who was caged over a &pound;200,000 heroin racket.
The guard involved is under investigation but still working for G4S. He’s on a 21-hour part-time contract but did 22 hours in one shift last week.
The dozy duo head a G4S list of shame exposed today by Daily Record investigators.
One guard – who failed his entrance exam – let a prisoner escape from his custody at the Southern General in Glasgow after previously being reported for sleeping on duty.
And two more were carpeted after allowing a woman prisoner to spend 24 hours with her boyfriend at Forth Valley Hospital in Larbert.
They reportedly claimed they weren’t sure it was against the rules.
Insiders blame the shocking blunders on penny-pinching by G4S bosses desperate to save cash on the seven-year, &pound;154million contract to transport Scotland’s prisoners to and from hospitals and courts.
They say the staff are suffering because the firm took on a contract they can’t make pay.
G4S got the job aftertheir predecessors, Reliance, let more than 50 prisoners escape.
But one whistleblower told us: “G4S make Reliance look like the SAS. It’s worse than ever before.
“They are paying off or driving out experienced staff and bringing in part-timers with little experience.
“But they still need to fulfil the contract, so people contracted for a 21-hour week end up doing more than 24 hours in one shift.
“No wonder they’re falling asleep. Some are working more than 90 hours a week.”
G4S’s boss in Scotland, David Denny, was headhunted from Reliance to run the contract but left his post last month. The whistleblower said it looked to staff like “a rat deserting a sinking ship”.
Another insider claimed to have been hounded out of his job by a recent “restructuring” which cut his pay and put 56 workers on shifts with hours ranging from 17 to 35 per week.
He said: “Dangerous people are being handed over to part-timers still learning the ropes. It’s crazy.
“They’re forcing people to take reduced contracts and finding big staffing gaps in other areas.
“They’ll lose millions satisfying the contract and the only way they can see to mitigate the loss is to take it out on the staff. But when you cut corners the way they are, the operation starts to fall apart.”
A senior source at G4S told us that around 70 staff left between January and March this year, but “they weren’t the ones they wanted rid of”.
 

The insider said the leavers were being replaced by former police out to boost their retirement income or youngsters trying to build their CVs before applying to join the police or prison service.
He added: “They’re either young and inexperienced or old and trying to get an easy life.
 “They’re in the wrong job – but you’d have to be mad to take on such stressful work for &pound;8.60  an hour. 
“David Denny was at the forefront of all the meetings about the redundancies. He knew better than anyone what was in the pipeline and the staff weren’t surprised when he bolted.”
In other worrying incidents at G4S, a boss let an alleged terrorist sign a birthday card for a relative – while in the cells at the High Court in Glasgow.
And a guard was allegedly attacked and badly injured while transporting murderer Sean Kergan, who had been slashed in Shotts jail, to hospital.
 It’s understood Kergan wasn’t to blame and another man has been charged. 
G4S admitted the security lapses documented in our story and said investigations were under way.
Managing Director for G4S Public Services, John Shaw, said: “The vastmajority of the 180,000 prisoner movements that colleagues deliver every year are completed on time and without incident.
“We are committed to delivering a smart and efficient service for our customer and taxpayers.”
Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

