Gordon Matheson is to stand for the deputy leadership of the Scottish Labour Party.The leader of Glasgow City Council announced his intention today. He said being in charge of Scotland’s largest council has given him the experience required for the job. Mr Matheson said: “I offer the distinct combination of experience, freshness and change. “I have successfully led Scotland’s largest city and I think I am best placed to do this job. “But because I’m not part of the party machine, I have a new perspective on the changes that are needed. “As a party, we have to stop feeling sorry for ourselves and focus on what is important to the people of Scotland. “We need to convince people we are interested in them - and not ourselves.” Speculation has been mounting for some time that Mr Matheson sees his future at Holyrood. He told the Evening Times: “I want to make it clear, if I am elected deputy leader I will remain leader of Glasgow City Council until May 2016. “I would retain my focus on Glasgow, but I would pursue an election to the Scottish Parliament.” Under reforms, councillors are able to stand for the deputy role for the first time. Mr Matheson said: “I was getting calls and texts on Saturday, when the change came in. “They were saying “are you going for it?” and “we’ll back you”, so I discussed it at home, spoke to some advisors and decided on Saturday evening that I would stand. “People in Scotland feel the Labour Party have lost our way, but I have a combination of the experience of leadership and freshness, which can change that.” Stephen McCabe, the leader of the local authority in Inverclyde, is also understood to be considering running for the deputy leadership. Kezia Dugdale is not experienced enough to lead the Scottish Labour Party, according to her opponent Ken Macintosh. Mr Macintosh said he is confident he can win the leadership election, formally launched with the resignation of Jim Murphy yesterday after just six months in post, and said he will be bolstered by the party’s move to one member, one vote. Ms Dugdale was elected as Mr Murphy’s deputy in December after four years as an MSP for the Lothians and many more as a party activist and election co-ordinator. But Mr Macintosh, a veteran MSP who has represented the Renfrewshire seat of Eastwood since Holyrood’s inception, said Ms Dugdale lacks the experience to lead the party. He said: “As it happens, I actually think Kezia is a fantastic person, very able, very articulate, a lovely person. “I like her a lot and was one of her big supporters for deputy leader. “It’s just that she is just not experienced enough yet.” Mr Macintosh dismissed suggestions that his politics are too close to Mr Murphy’s, who represented the co-terminus East Renfrewshire seat at Westminster until Labour’s crushing defeat in May. Meanwhile, acting Labour leader Iain Gray said anyone can have vote in the Scottish Labour leadership contest and get the chance to stand for election for just &pound;3 if they register as a party supporter.