A MAN who had his car stolen turned detective and tracked it down just 12 hours later – using Facebook.
Jamie Rooney, 22, turned to social media when a Peugeot 206 he was selling was snatched in broad daylight by a thief posing as a potential buyer.
Gorbals Tyre Centre owner Jamie was at work on Thursday when a man, believed to be in his 20s, came in asking if he knew of any cars for sale.
Jamie, from Maryhill, Glasgow, offered him the 12-year-old Peugeot for &pound;800.
After having a look around the silver car, the robber feigned interest in buying it and started chatting about handing over cash for it.
Jamie’s van had been blocking the car in but when he moved it out of the way, the thief roared off – leaving Jamie speechless.
Jamie said: “I couldn’t believe it when the guy just sped off.
“He had seemed like an OK guy and said he was interested in taking the Pug.
“I moved my van out of the way to give him more space to check the brakes as he had requested.
“As soon as I did that, he put the foot down, drove over the pavement and disappeared.”
Jamie called police, who said they would look into the case.
But he decided to take matters into his own hands and posted a picture of the motor on Facebook, asking his 2300 online friends to keep an eye out for it.
 

Jamie said: “The guy was definitely from Glasgow, so I posted a message asking if anyone had seen the car.
 “Within hours, someone contacted me on Facebook to say they had just seen it being driven  erratically on Dumbarton Road.” 
The car was then spotted by another Facebook user in Whiteinch – after the thief had allegedly driven off with fuel from a petrol station and collided with another vehicle.
 Jamie contacted police, who headed out to the scene. Officers eventually caught the driver and  recovered Jamie’s motor. 
 

They are scouring the car for forensic evidence but Jamie is hoping it will be handed back to him later this week.
He said: “I’d like to thank everyone who shared the photo of my stolen car on Facebook and who contacted me when they spotted it being driven erratically – especially my mates Paul Robertson, Matt Moffat and his girlfriend Demi Cairns.
“They followed the car then called cops and waited by it until police showed up to arrest the guy.
“If it wasn’t for them, who knows what could have happened.
“Social media strikes again.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

