A MAN who had urine blown over his suit and trousers by a badly placed hand dryer in a restaurant has received an apology.
Gordie Wallace, 31, was enjoying a meal at Handmade Burger in Aberdeen with his girlfriend Claire Roberton, 21, when the unpleasant accident occurred.
The couple, who were out celebrating the first successful week of Gordie's new business, had just finished their mean when Gordie went to the toilet.
 Unfortunately, a stream of hot air from a hand dryer - hanging just above the toilet he was using - went off and splashed urine all across his clothes . 
Embarrassed Gordie got home and took to Facebook to vent his fury at the burger company in Aberdeen.
He detailed his unfortunate encounter, which has now been 'liked' over 20,000 times.
Gordie, who owns a worktop repairs company in Aberdeen said: &quot;I was peeing at the toilets after dinner and the hand dryer above the toilet caused the pee to spray onto my trainers and trousers.
&quot;I tried to dive out of the way of the stream but it was too late. My girlfriend heard me squeak from outside the door. I was so embarrassed that I immediately left.
&quot;I put a tongue-in-cheek post on their Facebook page and thought that nothing would come of it but the reaction has been really surprising.
&quot;It's good to know I'm not alone in this.&quot;
 

Gordie has since received an apology from the restaurant who said they would make up for the unfortunate incident.
Handmade Burger have offered Gordie &quot;a pair of trainers and a supply of socks every month for a year to compensate&quot;.
Gordie said: &quot;Handmade Burger have been great, I enjoyed my meal but they sent me a message and have even offered me a pair of replacement trainers.
&quot;My girlfriend tried to console me afterwards by taking me to Ben and Jerry's which, I must admit, did help.&quot;
 

A spokesman for the restaurant said: &quot;Hi Gordie, we're really sorry to hear about your experience in our Union Square restaurant.
&quot;This is the first time that this has happened in the five years that we have been open.
&quot;We'd like to send you a pair of trainers and a supply of socks every month for a year to compensate.
&quot;Also, as you can see from the picture attached, we have asked all of our restaurant teams to perform rigorous tests in their toilets to ensure that this is a one-off experience as a result of this.
&quot;If you'd like to direct message us your home address we will be able to arrange your trainers and sock subscription.&quot;
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

