STAFF shortages at G4S are putting female guards at serious risk from rapists and violent offenders, a former employee claimed yesterday.
It comes after the Record revealed how overworked and inexperienced workers at the private security giants are falling asleep on the job while in charge of dangerous criminals.
Insiders blamed penny-pinching by G4S bosses desperate to save cash on their seven-year, &pound;154million contract to ferry Scotland’s prisoners to court or hospital.
The ex-employee, who asked not to be identified, told how she was attacked on the job and added: “It’s just a matter of time till someone is raped or seriously injured or worse.”
She said: “I worked for the firm for four years and during that time I was repeatedly left alone to escort prisoners who were known to the bosses as rapists or violent and dangerous offenders.
“I worked around the sheriff courts, where I would be cuffed to sometimes huge, burly prisoners with a single cuff and left to escort them from the cell, up in the lift, through lonely corridors to the court upstairs by myself.
 “Once, when I saw who I was supposed to take upstairs, I complained to my line manager,  but was told that as they were short-staffed I just needed to do it because there was no one else. 
“Another time, a prisoner who I was escorting kicked off and, as there was no one else around, all I could do was scream for help. Luckily a police officer from the court ran out and helped to restrain him.”
G4S took over the prisoner contract from rival firm Reliance in 2012.
 

The former female guard claimed: “Experienced employees, who knew how to do the job and deal with difficult situations, were let go or walked out, leaving much less experienced people to deal with situations they couldn’t handle.”
John Shaw, G4S managing director of public services, said: “I take my colleagues’ safety and security extremely seriously and, while the nature of our work inherently carries risk, we train and support every colleague to minimise the threat to them, members of the public and prisoners.
“We are changing the delivery model of this contract to better reflect the needs of our customer as well as prisoners. As part of that process, which we began last year, we are restructuring a small part of the business so that we are better able to manage demand than the current delivery model provides.
“At the same time, we are boosting staff numbers so that in the coming weeks there will be more people delivering this service than ever before.”
On the safety of female guards, he added: “We don’t discriminate between women and men.
 “We are not aware of any employee complaints about the level of staffing on prisoner escorts  and every prisoner movement is thoroughly risk-assessed and colleagues are always deployed in pairs as a minimum.” 
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

