UNDERCOVER detectives had at least two armed robbers under surveillance before they raided an Edinburgh bank with axes.
Alistair Oliver and Gordon McLay sold watches stolen from a Glasgow jewellers on September 24 last year in a dramatic heist caught on film.
The surveillance operation, which can only now be reported, emerged during a separate trial involving Oliver at Edinburgh Sheriff Court.
A notorious thug – former boxing champ Denholm Hendry – was cleared of attempting to abduct him just three days after the Argyll Arcade robbery.
Oliver, 30, was the target of police surveillance as early as September 26, with officers tailing him as a prime suspect.
 

Ultimately, he and McLay, 32, were not prosecuted in relation to the Argyll Arcade robbery, merely for the reset of goods stolen.
A trio of hoods from Manchester admitted carrying out the robbery – and the subsequent Edinburgh raid along with the Scots pair.
 
The alleged abduction attempt played out in front of police who followed Oliver and McLay to a bookies where they watched the Ryder Cup on TV.
Two detectives gave evidence that Hendry tried to abduct Oliver from under their noses on September 27.
The trial heard they had been granted permission for surveillance on Oliver over his suspected involvement in the Glasgow job.
 At least two officers in cars watched Oliver at the Coral bookies in  Wallyford, East Lothian, where he met McLay. Both men live in the village. 
 A detective sergeant took dozens of pictures of Oliver. A detective constable sat in a second car 50m down the road, updating a surveillance log. 
 

The officers said Hendry punched Oliver and manhandled him towards a Honda Civic. But a jury found the case not proven by a majority and 6ft 4in Hendry walked free last month.
The court watched CCTV footage from a bus which captured the incident.
A detective constable told the trial he saw Hendry punch Oliver, who managed to “sprint” away. The officer conceded he couldn’t see Hendry strike Oliver on the CCTV footage.
Giving evidence, Oliver claimed he’d been called out of the bookies to a car and had “bumped into Denholm”.
 
He said he had issues with another person in the car, not Denholm, and had intended harming that person.
Hendry, 34, gave evidence in his own defence, saying he didn’t know the name of the man in the car.
He added: “I didn’t know there was bad blood between them. Mr Oliver went ballistic, to say the least.

“He backed into me. He just went bananas. He said he was going to get a weapon.”
 Hendry, who weighs 18-and-a-half stone and was Scottish light-  heavyweight champion in 2001, was cleared of attempted abduction. 
Oliver said that police questioning him over the RBS robbery – which happened five days after the Wallyford incident – tried to bribe him with a chocolate biscuit to give evidence against Hendry. He told Hendry’s trial they tried to take back a Kit Kat when he refused.
Oliver told the jury: “I was charged with the bank thing at about 11.30pm. I was trying to get to sleep when two plainclothes officers came to see me.
“They said I’d been arrested for a serious crime and was looking at double figures.
“They asked if I was interested in reducing my sentence from 10 years to six. They wanted me to give a statement against Denholm.”
 
Oliver said he was “surprised” by the offer as he could not see the “relevance to my case”.
 

He added: “I told them to f*** off. I said I had nothing to speak to them about. They were trying to persuade me to give a statement, saying they could get my sentence down. I said, ‘I don’t have a clue what you are talking about’.”
Nigel Beaumont, defending, asked Oliver how the officers responded.
Oliver said: “They weren’t happy. They’d given me a Kit Kat and a cup of tea – one of those wee two-fingered ones. They tried to take the Kit Kat back. I wouldn’t give it to them.”
Asked if he kept the chocolate, Oliver replied to laughter in the court: “Aye, I was starving.”
 Prosecutors didn’t challenge Oliver on the alleged police deal or the  argument over the Kit Kat. 
In his closing speech, Beaumont said police actions showed “someone on the force doesn’t like Mr Hendry”.
Hendry is part of a feared south Edinburgh family and was jailed for 21 months in 2011 for assault. He was ordered to pay &pound;7000 to a man whose jaw he broke in 2005.
Hendry was one of four men charged with attempting to murder gunman Jamie Bain in the minutes after the fatal Marmion pub shooting in 2006 but was not convicted.
 

He was standing with Alex McKinnon when he was shot dead and James Hendry wounded.
A police spokeswoman said: “Oliver and McLay had been under police surveillance in the days following the robbery at the Argyll Arcade.
“This was visual surveillance with no audio recordings of what they were discussing.
“Officers followed the suspects to the RBS branch in Edinburgh on October 2 where the men carried out a robbery.
“Police had no prior information that this robbery was going to take place until it happened.
“The suspects were apprehended almost immediately following the incident.”

Try our quick news quiz below: 

