A SCOT who was horribly burned in a Spanish gas explosion has won a 30-year fight for justice – after a crooked lawyer stole her compensation cash.
Michelle Laird was just 13 when she was caught up in the 1984 blast that killed her gran and a pal.
In 1996, Michelle, 43, was awarded almost &pound;450,000 in damages but she has never seen a penny.
Last week, Spanish lawyer Jaume Gascon admitted embezzlement charges and was ordered to pay back the cash he stole. Gascon owned up at a court in Girona just moments before he was due to stand trial.
The lawyer – who was given a two-year suspended sentence – will pay Michelle and her cousin Margaret Mochan &pound;367 a month each for two years before settling the debt in full.
Michelle, from Plean in Stirlingshire, said last night: “It’s not about the money – it’s about getting justice and closure so I can put this all behind me.”
The blast happened shortly after the family arrived at a holiday apartment in Lloret de Mar on the Costa Brava. The cause of the explosion was never established. Michelle’s gran Bridget Laird, 59, and Helen Graham, 62, were killed.
Michelle suffered 50 per cent burns and Margaret 75 per cent burns. Both endured months in hospital and countless skin grafts.
With interest and fluctuating exchange rates, the total compensation they were awarded is close to &pound;1million.
Michelle said: “A Spanish court decided not to prosecute the owner, so we took out a civil case and won. We hired Senor Gascon to be our lawyer as he was local and seemed very nice. The last I heard from him was in 1996.
“Despite repeated requests for the money, he ignored all letters.”
Michelle says she complained to police several years ago and was surprised to receive a summons for court a few weeks ago asking her to attend a trial.
She said: “We didn’t know he was actually under investigation.”
 

 Michelle travelled to Girona to be a witness in Gascon’s trial. She added: “I only need to look in the mirror to be reminded of what happened. I’ve tried not to let it dictate my life but  it was hard growing up and it robbed me of my teenage years. 
“It’s all being dragged up again. It’s hard to escape the memories of what happened.
“For our own lawyer who was supposed to be helping us to turn around and do this has been hell.”
She went on: “It’s just seemed like all these years no one has been willing to help, first with the explosion investigation itself and then the compensation fight. We trusted Gascon to look after our interests.
“I felt really nervous and upset but knew I had to get through this after all this time.
“I feel we were all remarkable after all these years and finally facing the man whom we had trusted to represent us. It was very upsetting for us but feel we got some kind of closure.
“I am still in Spain and visited the apartments yesterday. They are in a state of disrepair and there is a For Sale sign outside. I am glad I made that journey to put the demons to rest and make peace with the memories.”
Gascon’s services are still advertised on internet search engines but nobody was contactable at his firm last night.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

