AN armed gang were caught when one of them took photos of another wearing a &pound;16,000 watch they had stolen.
Jason Yendall, Aaron Brannan and Jason Britton fled Argyll Arcade in Glasgow with &pound;229,601 worth of jewellery as terrified &shy;shoppers and staff looked on.
But the men were caught after taking part in a bank raid in Edinburgh just over a week later. Police suspected them of carrying out the robbery in the city centre mall but couldn’t prove it.
But an examination of &shy;Brannan’s mobile phone revealed Britton had unwittingly taken photos showing a reflection of Britton wearing one of 21 distinctive watches taken from the arcade.
Sheena Fraser, prosecuting, told the High Court in Glasgow: “In two of the photographs a mirror is caught in the background and a man wearing a watch is caught in the mirror.
“He is clearly identifiable as Britton. This watch was one valued at &pound;16,000.”
Other photos included snaps of Brannan and Britton sightseeing in Edinburgh between the two robberies. There were also images of a man’s wrist with a watch – of a type taken in the robbery.
 The men, all from Manchester, yesterday pled guilty at the High Court in Glasgow to taking part in last September’s heist in the Argyll Arcade, home to more than 30 &shy;jewellers and diamond merchants. 
Two Scots, Alistair Oliver, 30 and Gordon McLay, 32, both of &shy;Wallyford, East Lothian, appeared with them in court to admit selling some of the stolen watches.
 

All five also admitted taking part in a &pound;20,000 raid on a branch of the Royal Bank of Scotland in &shy;Edinburgh a week after the Glasgow robbery.
The raid on Argyll Arcade shocked Scotland. The gang stole vehicles and registration plates in Scotland and England.
Yendall, 29, Brannan, 23, and Britton, 23, carried out a “dry run” of the route a day before the heist.
On September 24, the Manchester trio and two unknown associates travelled from Edinburgh.
They stopped on Glasgow’s Queen Street close to Argyll Arcade and four men got out.
Two were carrying baseball bats, one a sledgehammer and one an axe. They were all wearing &shy;balaclavas and gloves.
The driver stayed in the car, although Miss Fraser said it was unclear which of them it was.

The robbers sprinted down Buchanan Street into the busy mall at about 1pm and headed for the Rox jewellery store.
Some of the gang kept a look-out while others raced inside and smashed a window display.
As shoppers and staff dived for cover, 19 Hublot and two Bell &amp; Ross watches, each worth from &pound;2750 to &pound;23,000, were snatched and tossed into bags.
Miss Fraser said: “While this was happening, members of the group in the arcade were shouting and banging on other shop windows.
“This generated a great deal of fear and panic as it was busy with public and staff from other shops.”
A worker in one of the shops set off a device to fill the arcade with smoke in a bid to disorientate the raiders.

Less than four minutes after arriving, the gang fled with their loot.

As they ran past shoppers, some of whom were recording the &shy;incident on their mobile phones, one yelled: “I’ll f****** kill you all.”
They ran up a nearby lane and jumped into their getaway vehicle before heading to Edinburgh.
Oliver and McLay were in a bookmakers in Wallyford hours after the raid. Both were wearing &pound;2750 watches taken from the arcade and given to them by the gang.
Yendall later searched online for second hand watch websites.
He, Brannan and Britton were back in Scotland just over a week later to raid a branch of RBS in Edinburgh’s Tolcross.
However, police had been checking up on Oliver after he bought four balaclavas and an axe from a B&amp;Q store in the city.
Oliver then arranged for Yendall, Brannan and Britton to stay a friend’s flat near the bank.
On October 2 – the day of the robbery – some of the gang got into a van used in the watch raid.
 

Yendall, Brannan and Britton – all masked and carrying weapons – then held up the bank after two of them jumped the counter.
They shouted: “Don’t f****** move or we’ll kill you. Give me your f****** money.”
Some notes fell on the floor but they couldn’t pick them up because of their gloves.
They fled with &pound;19,675, warning staff not to call police. After escaping in the van, they then jumped into a waiting Ford car which Oliver and McLay were in.
It was soon stopped by watching police who found cash and two axes in the back.
McLay claimed he and Oliver had been eating in the car when three mystery men jumped in the vehicle and demanded they drive.
Phone evidence then pinned the Glasgow job on the Manchester gang. The court heard that all five men already had a criminal past.
They were remanded in custody by judge Lord Turnbull until sentencing next month.
The Argyll Arcade haul has still not been recovered.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

