FORMER Rangers star Paul Gascoigne has revealed he received a death threat from the IRA after his infamous “flute-playing” antics in a powder-keg Old Firm clash in 1998.
And in the wake of the incident Gazza admitted he feared for his life in Scotland – while on the pitch and off it.
The police even gave him a special mirrored device to check under his car for bombs in the aftermath of the game.
The 48-year-old now regrets trying to wind up the crowd at Parkhead by mimicking Orange walk marchers playing The Sash.
The former England, Lazio, Spurs and Newcastle midfielder pulled the controversial stunt twice in his time playing for Walter Smith’s team, against Steaua Bucharest in 1995 and then against bitter rivals Celtic as the Hoops won 2-0 in the New Year derby in 1998.
Gazza received death threats after the ill-advised theatrics, which police investigated.
Speaking in a candid new documentary about his life as a footballer, he said: &quot;I didn't know what it really meant the first time, so I got off with it.
&quot;The second time I knew... the Celtic fans were harassing us and so I did The Sash thing... and then I got the letter from the IRA threatening to kill us.
 

&quot;The police gave me something to look under my car for bombs and told me to get the family to board up the house in case someone shot through the windows.
“I panicked for the first four or five games, worried if someone was in the crowd.”
Gascoigne admits he was shocked by the religious rivalry in Scotland.
He said: “It’s more hatred up there. It’s horrific, Protestants against Catholics.
&quot;I’ve never witnessed anything like that.”
The troubled former England international has battled mental health problems and alcoholism since hanging up his boots.
He said: “I have been close to death twice and I’ve pulled through. It’s an illness I have and probably will have for the rest of my life.
&quot;Sometimes I find that easy and sometimes I find it hard. I know how to stay sober and I know how to relapse. I’m good at both, really.
&quot;It’s a question of whether I accept it or not.”
The film, Gascoigne, is released on DVD today.

