SURVIVORS of a helicopter crash off Shetland almost two years ago have lodged a legal claim for damages.
A Super Puma was carrying 16 passengers and two crew from the Borgsten Dolphin platform when it crashed on its approach to Sumburgh airport.
Three men and one woman were killed in the accident on August 23 2013.
Solicitors Digby Brown said nine survivors are seeking damages for emotional, physical and financial losses in the aftermath of the crash.
Helicopter operator CHC said more than &pound;500,000 had already been paid out and it wants to resolve outstanding claims as soon as possible.
Lisa Gregory, of Digby Brown, said: &quot;These individuals have gone through a horrific experience which has affected them in many ways and will continue to do so.
&quot;They have suffered emotional, physical and financial losses because of something that occurred when they were just going to work.
&quot;For justice to be done, these men need to be compensated for everything that has happened to them.
&quot;Raising these court actions is the latest step in our work to get access to justice for our clients.&quot;
 

Those who died in the crash were Duncan Munro, 46, from Bishop Auckland, Co Durham; George Allison, 57, from Winchester, Hampshire; Sarah Darnley, 45, from Elgin, Moray; and 59-year-old Gary McCrossan, from Inverness.
CHC said &quot;much work&quot; had been undertaken to provide financial assistance to families affected by the accident.
A spokeswoman said: &quot;For those that have brought claims, the process of assessing and quantifying them has been a difficult one for all involved, but considerable progress has been made and a large number of claims have already been resolved.
&quot;Regrettably, a few claims remain unresolved as the insurer awaits the results of professional assessments, such as medical exams.
&quot;Whilst this is disappointing, CHC and its insurers are keen to receive these assessments so the process can move forward and these few outstanding claims can be resolved.
&quot;In the meantime, a significant sum of money - now in excess of &pound;500,000 - has already been paid on an interim basis and to alleviate any potential hardship.
&quot;It is the company's sincere desire to resolve the remaining outstanding claims as quickly as possible.&quot;

