 ONE in 40 motorists stopped during the last fortnight was over the drink-drive limit , according to police figures. 
It follows the introduction of a lower drink-drive limit in December last year which means one drink could put a motorist over the legal limit.
A summer drink-drive crackdown was launched two weeks ago and so far 185 people have been found to be over the limit.
The figures are an increase on the same period last year when one driver in every 55 stopped was found to be over the limit.
Justice Secretary Michael Matheson said: &quot;When the summer drink drive campaign launched two weeks ago, it had a simple message: don't risk it.
&quot;With the police stopping thousands of drivers each month, there can be serious consequences for anyone caught drink driving. Even with the sun shining over Scotland, it's never safe to drink and drive.
&quot;Police breath tests show one in 40 stopped drivers is over the legal limit. That kind of reckless behaviour cannot be tolerated in Scotland - it puts everyone involved in danger.
&quot;The reality is that having even one alcoholic drink before driving makes you three times more likely to be involved in a fatal car crash. It's definitely not worth that risk.&quot;
Chief Superintendent Iain Murray, head of road policing at Police Scotland, said: &quot;These statistics are a timely reminder that drinking and driving is not just something that happens at Christmas and targeting those who continue to put themselves and others needlessly at risk in this way is a year-round priority for the police.
&quot;Scotland's new drink-driving limit means just one drink may be enough to fail a breath test and every day in Scotland more drivers than ever before are being stopped by road policing officers, and the risk of being caught has therefore never been higher.
&quot;Over the coming months, Police Scotland will continue its efforts to make Scotland's roads safer for all road users and reducing drink-driving offences, or catching those who continue to do so, will remain a focus of activity across the country.&quot;
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

