There was a treat in store for schoolkids when members of the National Youth Pipe Band of Scotland popped round to give them a music lesson with a difference.
Youngsters at Arkleston Primary, in Renfrew, enjoyed a performance by band members and then had the chance to try out the chanter and drums for themselves.
It was part of the build-up to the Piping Live! Glasgow International Piping Festival, which takes place from August 10 to 16, and the World Pipe Band Championships, which are being staged at Glasgow Green on August 14 and 15.
Alisdair McLaren, of the National Youth Pipe Band of Scotland, said: “Our members gave students an insight into what it is like to play the pipes and drums and also shared what it meant to them to be involved in their local pipe band and how they enjoy promoting their national instrument.
“Even with the junior piping and drumming scene flourishing over the past five years, there is still a lot that can be done to give young children access to learning these instruments – and we definitely have some future musicians at Arkleston Primary.
“The kids seemed really excited about being able to see other kinds of piping during the summer festivals, so we expect to see a few friendly faces this year.
“After giving the pupils a chance to practice the chanter and drums, I’m sure we’ll see a few become participants soon enough.”
Lorna McManus, a primary seven teacher at the school, said the young pipers were a smash hit with pupils.
She added: “The children really enjoyed the visit. It was a great experience for them.
“The primary seven pupils were already looking forward to their end-of-term ceilidh and it was good practice for them to hear some traditional Scottish music.”
Piping Live! is the biggest festival of its kind in the world and the week-long celebrations will see more than 200 events taking place in various venues across Glasgow.
The World Pipe Band Championships take place over two days, with 220 bands from countries across the planet competing for the top awards.
Tickets for both events are on sale now and can be booked by calling 0844 477 1000 or by logging on to www.peoplemakeglasgow.com/piping.
