AFTER brave firefighter Martin Barker was burned in a blaze, his wife Jackie was convinced nothing else could go wrong.
But just a year later Martin was diagnosed with a devastating neurological condition which turned their lives upside down.
He was told he had ataxia, a progressive condition that affects balance, speech, and co-ordination. There is no treatment or cure.
Jackie, 50, said: “I thought he’d dodged a bullet after the fire but now he’s facing the toughest battle of his life. It’s a ticking timebomb.”
But, with the same spirit that saw him race into burning buildings to save lives, Martin refuses to give in.
And he is fundraising for research into a cure because there’s a 50 per cent chance his two sons may inherit the condition.
Martin, 48, added: “This is the hardest battle I’ve faced. It’s tougher than facing fires.
“It’s not life-threatening but it’s life-limiting. It has affected my life but I’ve come to terms with it. It’s very important to remain positive.”
 

Ataxia affects around 10,000 people in the UK – fewer than 0.2 per cent. It’s often misunderstood because sufferers can appear drunk as their mobility and speech is affected.
Martin said: “It was once described to me as ‘being drunk without the happiness’ and this is very apt. There is a lot of prejudice out there but I put this down to lack of understanding.
“We need to raise awareness and money to fund vital research. It’s only through research that we can have hope for the future.”
After helping the public in the frontline of emergency services, Martin, from Glasgow, now hopes people will get behind his fundraising skydive with his son next month for research into the condition.
He added: “As a firefighter it has been my duty – and my pleasure and privilege – to have been there to assist people in their time of greatest need and to help them adjust after their trauma.
“I now find myself in circumstances of need and vulnerability and am asking for assistance for myself and all other sufferers in my condition.
“My condition is what it is and I plod on regardless.”
Martin was badly burned in a fire about 16 years ago in Maryhill, Glasgow, when as a leading firefighter he’d gone to assess a blaze on wasteland.
 

Jackie, a medical secretary, said: “Someone set fire to pallets and there was a drum of chemicals underneath. The whole thing ignited as Martin approached. Back then the helmet didn’t have a visor so his face took the full brunt of the chemicals.
“His skin broke down and he looked even worse over the coming days but it’s amazing how he recovered.
“You hardly see it – he’s got very slight scarring. I thought that was it. But then a year later this diagnosis came out the blue.”
Martin’s sister Karen McGrory called with the bombshell news that she’d been diagnosed with the hereditary condition after suffering slurred speech and balance problems. Tests revealed Martin had it too.
Martin and Jackie told their sons Michael, now 22, and Ewan, 17, that there was a 50 per cent chance they might also have the condition but they’ve decided not to be tested yet.
Jackie said: “There’s no magic pill to take and that’s why Martin is wanting to raise as much money as possible to pump it into research.
“And if something came of it within our sons’ lifetimes that would be amazing.”
The diagnosis meant Martin had to give up his job as a frontline firefighter.
 

Jackie said: “He wasn’t allowed to stay on the engine and go out to fires so had to take up a desk job. He loved his job and couldn’t do it any more – that was really cruel.”
Around 10 years ago, Martin’s balance worsened. He fell on his way to work and ended up lying on the road.
Jackie said: “The awful thing was that people saw him lying there and, because his balance and speech was affected, they thought he was drunk so they didn’t stop.
“He spent 45 minutes lying in the snow with a broken ankle. He was wearing a firefighter’s uniform so you struggle to think how people thought he was drunk – but nobody would help.
“He managed to crawl to a front door and the person called an ambulance.
“After that it very much affected his confidence. Even going into a pub or restaurant, people would see his problems with his balance and speech and wouldn’t allow him entry.
“We had to get an identity card from Ataxia UK to show people these were the symptoms of the condition and he wasn’t drunk.”
The disorder is progressive but Jackie and Martin don’t know how quickly he could deteriorate.
 

Jackie said: “It’s devastating but it’s amazing how you adapt and get on with life. You have really dark days and times when you try not to think about it.”
But she says that signing up to do the charity skydive with son Michael has had a hugely positive effect.
Jackie added: “He’s been quite withdrawn but since he’s decided to do this jump and raise awareness and funds, he’s like a different person.
“Being proactive and trying to help others, it’s really given him a purpose.
“We can’t think too far ahead. For a good few years he was pretty stable but in the last 18 to 24 months he’s got quite a bit worse again and that’s worrying.
“But it was the same when Martin started being a fireman. For the first few months you worry constantly. But you can’t live like that. You have to take it as it comes.”
And while the benefits of research into the condition might come too late to help Martin, he is buoyed by the prospect that it could help others – and possibly his sons.
Martin added: “Medicine is advancing all the time and I remain positive for their future.
“Ataxia UK are doing worldwide research to find treatments and a possible cure for this condition and are making great advances.”
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

