SCOTLAND'S flagship new hospital has been put on emergency support to tackle dreadful waiting times in A&amp;E.
Health Secretary Shona Robison parachuted in experts to the South Glasgow University Hospital, which has suffered a string of problems since opening to patients.
 Last month shocked doctors described the A&amp;E department as a war zone. 
Horrified visitors said patients were lined up in corridors and sick people had to sit on the floor.
Figures today (Tuesday) show just 78 per cent of patients in A&amp;E are being seen within the four-hour target time.
Robison said: “Performance against the four hour target in accident and emergency has dipped and is some way off the national average.
 “We always expected there to be some initial challenges around performance as staff from all three sites got used to working in their new environment, however in the interests of patients in Glasgow, we have agreed with the board to offer the considerable expertise in unscheduled care at our disposal.” 
 

 The SNP’s target is for 95 per cent of patients to be dealt with in four hours, before moving to a tougher 98 per cent target. 
Latest figures for the week ending June 7 put the average Scottish result at 92.6 per cent.
Robison has been given personal daily updates on the situation at the &pound;842million South Glasgow Hospital while experts are in regular contact with the NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde board.
Robison said the transfer of services was one of the most complex in the NHS’s history.
The sprawling campus is one of the largest in Europe, replacing “out of date” facilities across the country.
She was impressed with dedication of staff during a visit last month.
But the hospital has weathered major teething problems.
 Last week, it was named as the worst performing for A&amp;E waiting times after it emerged 238 people waited too long. 
One doctor last month revealed paramedics were queueing up with patients just to check them in.
He hoped the problems would be smoothed out but added: &quot;Consultants are worried.”
 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

