FINAL colour footage of the late great Stan Laurel has emerged on line to celebrate the late comedy actor’s birthday today - June 16.
Born in 1890, Stan grew up in Scotland, living in Glasgow where his dad was manager of the Metropole Theatre on Stockwell Street before it burned down in 1962.
He even appeared under the stage name of Stan Jefferson in panto and comedy shows at Trongate’s Brittania Music Hall.
 He passed away fifty years ago but his name is still very much alive in Scotland where, just this weekend, a new mural of him and his famous grin appeared with other famous Scots on the refurbished exterior of the Clutha Vaults. 
 

 The rare colour footage of Stan was shot just two months before his death and is seen in an office getting kisses from his loved ones including his third wife Ida Kitaeva Raphael, before he does some of his famous impressions, including his signature scratch of the head. 
He also wipes lipstick from his mouth after being showered in kisses and is seen smiling away.
Stan, who was a heavy smoker until he suddenly quit around 1960, died on February 23 1965, aged 74, four days after suffering a heart attack on February 19.
 

Just minutes before he died he reportedly told his nurse he would not mind going skiing right at that very moment. The surprised nurse replied that she was not aware that he was a skier. “I’m not,” said Laurel, “I’d rather be doing that than this!” A few minutes later he died quietly in his armchair.
Laurel had earlier quipped: “If anyone at my funeral has a long face, I’ll never speak to him again.”
Stan Laurel also kept in touch with a Scots housewife after meeting her just once in 1954.
 In one of his letters to her he wrote: “Wish I were able to come over for the opening of the New Metropole in Glasgow but I am afraid my travelling days are over,” he wrote in 1962. 
In another letter he enthused. “I wouldn’t mind a meal of haggis right now – and, of course, a glass of stout.”
 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

