Staff and pupils at a highly-respected school are the talk of the town after winning a prestigious honour.
Corseford School, in Kilbarchan, collected the Making Languages Come Alive gong at the Scottish Education Awards.
The coveted prize is a reward for efforts to help pupils with communication difficulties speak Spanish.
Corseford School caters for youngsters who have additional support needs, many of whom find it hard to talk and write.
However, committed teachers are helping pupils learn to express themselves in English and European languages.
The children have learned to use new technology, including alternative and augmentative communication (AAC), which involves swapping verbal or written communication for speech synthesizing machines, similar to those used by renowned physicist Stephen Hawking.
They have also mastered the use of eye gaze systems, which allow those with mobility movements the chance to speak by looking at images on a screen, which are then relayed by a machine.
Spanish words and phrases are programmed into their communication systems.
Languages teacher Maggie MacAskill said: “It is a lifeline to those who have difficulties communicating. It allows them to have a voice.
“The pupils are working extremely hard but are enjoying learning about other languages and cultures.”
Corseford School faced tough competition from rivals in Inverclyde and South Ayrshire at the Scottish Education Awards.
The glittering bash took place at the Thistle Hotel, in Glasgow, and featured a performance from Britain’s Got Talent dance troupe Flawless.
And the Kilbarchan staff were thrilled when they learned they had won the award.
Maggie believes the school’s success is down to efforts to make lessons fun and interactive.
She explained: “Props like Pedro the Puppet make it fun and provide a structure to the lesson as the children look forward to his songs.
“It’s amazing to see pupils, many of whom don’t use verbal communication, being able to communicate in a different language.”
Maggie was joined on stage by colleagues Fiona Catterson, Sheila Millar and Gill McGarry, as well as pupils Gary Leith and Rufus Bailey, as they collected their award from Angela Constance, who is Cabinet Secretary for Education and Lifelong Learning.
“Rufus and Gary came up on stage and said ‘gracias’ to say thanks for the award,” Maggie added. “At Corseford, we have a really strong team, which is fully committed to making sure our kids have the same right and access to high-quality education as their mainstream peers.
“It’s very humbling to have our success recognised in this way and it would be a dream if it alerted other families to the work we do, so their children can have the education they deserve.”
