WHETHER he is more famous for being a mixed martial artist or Conor McGregor's kryptonite, Joe Duffy doesn't mind. Even if it will be celebrated for the rest of his life, the fact he beat one of the most polarising and exciting UFC fighters in under one minute five years ago is the furthest thing from his mind.
 Instead, the Irish UFC scrapper has his mind focused on Glasgow and his bout with veteran Brazilian hardman, Ivan Jorge. He has been pushing his body to the limit with the very best coaches at the Tri Star gym in Montreal and can't wait to show Scots fans what he's learned. 
He said: &quot;I feel amazing right now. My game is going through the roof and I feel stronger in every aspect of the sport. I was a professional boxer but I've been grappling since I was ten and most of my wins come via submission. I have a mixed bag of tools and can't wait to show them all.&quot;
&quot;Glasgow fans can expect me to look for the finish at all times. I want it to be exciting. I'm always confident I'll get the finish but I won't put too much pressure on myself. I find gaps without trying too hard and you can feel when it's the right time to put the foot on the gas and finish the fight.&quot;
 

 As of now, Duffy's biggest claim to fame is that he was the last man to beat Conor McGregor. And it was decisive, winning via submission in 38 seconds on November 27 2010. 
But the career paths the two Irishmen have taken couldn't be more different. McGregor is one of the most brash figures in any sport and has achieved celebrity status around the world. He has earned himself a Featherweight title shot against pound for pound king Jose Aldo in Las Vegas on July 11.
 In contrast, Duffy switched to professional boxing for a while before quietly honing his skills towards becoming a future champion himself. Now fighting an entire division above McGregor, he doesn't care that they will forever be linked because he's his own man. 

&quot;It doesn't bother me in the least when people mention Conor McGregor. I already believe I can fight the very best and I train with the elite every day at Tri Star. I wish Conor all the best with his title challenge.&quot;
&quot;Maybe if he does what he says and wins the lightweight championship too, we could fight again. It'd be a good one to sell out a stadium I think. But I try not to think too much about the future.&quot;
 With family based all over the UK, Duffy expects his biggest fans will be desperate to see him fight in Glasgow. Comparing the Irish and Scots supporters, he says he's expecting a &quot;special&quot; atmosphere. 
&quot;I'm so ready. It's a big deal and I have people from all over coming to watch me. They've not released the order of the card but hopefully I'll not be on the prelims. It'll be some nice exposure if not.&quot;
&quot;I'm expecting a great atmosphere. There's some brilliant fighters in Scotland and I think the arena will be electric. I'll be going for a performance bonus and can't wait to get in there.&quot;
 Test your knowledge with our sports quiz: 

