A VIGILANTE who broke into a drug dealer’s home and battered him was yesterday jailed for 42 months.
 The High Court in Glasgow heard that 39- year-old James Cook had issued a warning to Thomas Busby Wright, telling him not to sell drugs from his home in Paisley Road, Renfrew, because there were children living in the building. 
And, when Mr Wright ignored that warning, Cook gained entry to his home through a broken window and launched a violent attack.
The court was told Mr Wright was repeatedly kicked and punched on the head during the incident, which took place on December 4 last year.
Sentencing Cook yesterday, judge Lord Bonomy told him: “I do not regard taking the law into your own hands as a mitigating factor.”
Lord Bonomy added that, but for an early plea of guilty, he would have jailed Cook for four years.
 Advocate John McElroy, defending had told the court that Mr Wright, who has two convictions for misuse of drugs, lived in the Ferguslie Park area of Paisley for a long time before moving to Renfrew. 
Mr McElroy added: “He started up his business from his close where he lived.
 

“He was told not to sell drugs but did so and, because of that, the violence was inflicted on him by my client. He took this action because there were a number of children living in the close.”
The court heard that, when police arrived on the scene, Mr Wright was unsteady on his feet and bleeding from injuries to his face.
Some time later, Cook was stopped because he matched a description of the assailant.
He was taken to a police station, where it was noted that, although he had no cuts, his face was covered in blood spots.
The blood was later analysed and found to be a match for Mr Wright.
Blood spots matching Mr Wright’s DNA were also found on the accused’s jeans and one of his boots.
In addition, a footprint found at the scene of the assault matched Cook’s boots.
Advocate depute Jim Keegan QC, prosecuting, said: “The accused has an extensive criminal record, including convictions for theft by housebreaking, theft, assault and robbery and attempted murder.”
The court heard that Mr Wright, who has recently entered a clinic to get treatment for drug abuse, refused to help the police with their investigation.
Try our quick news quiz below:

