THE LaFontaines reckon they may have broken the Scottish record for crowdsurfers at their recent album launch party - but it’s not something they will be attempting at T in the Park.
The band have just released Class and at their launch party in Glasgow’s Stereo they reckon more than 150 people surfed the crowd at the end of their performance.
Rapper and lyricist Kerr Okan said: “It was a riotous affair and I think we might have broken the record in Glasgow for the amount of crowd surfers in one show. The bouncers had to lift off the punters like they were throwing washing into the dryer.
There was well in excess of 150 and it was a continuous conveyor belt of crowd surfers on stage. It was fun but at T in the Park I don’t think we’d get away with it. Health and safety would be all over it.”
The lads - Kerr, John Gerard, Daz McCaughey, Jamie Keenan and Iain Findlay - have played T in the Park three times already and this is their fourth in a row - and are looking forward to trying out the new site at Strathallan Castle.

Before that Kerr was a loyal customer who had been going since he was 16 years old.
He said: “I’m 25 now and I used to be far more involved in the campsite. I feel I’ve paid my campsite dues and now so don’t really stay the night there anymore but I will come up on time for the show and visit middle earth in between.
“The majority of my friends are there and I like darting between the mayhem and campsite and getting my dinner in the free bit with free beer and a nice toilet before going back to kidding I’m one of the punters with lots of people peering in each others tents and everyone sitting around.”
One of Kerr’s favourite performances so far at T in The Park was watching Rage Against the Machine play.
He said: “That was the biggest one for me. I’ve loved them from a young age so to go see them with all my friends was immense. I said at the time ‘One day I’ll be on that stage’ and actually I’m on it now which is class.”

 

“The thing about Rage was that it is anti the commercial pop nonsense. They’re a band that can play so well and I was in the moshpit for it.
&quot;I got punched and I’m notoriously rubbish in moshpits because there are too many people coming from different angles.
“It is totally cool to be completely flattened though.”
The LaFontaines, who hail from Motherwell and Wishaw, formed in 2010 and got their first break at the old site in Balado playing the T Break stage.
Kerr said: “We were in at entry level but we were accepted and we were the first unsigned band to shut the tent down . They closed the tent off because it was so full and it was a huge thing for us. This year we’ve been asked to play the main stage and the more space the better. That’s my forte.”

The lads can’t wait for the crowd to sing along to their new songs and admit they are always surprised that people know they lyrics so soon after they’ve just released a track.
Kerr explained: “ I was very humbled the other night because although we just released the album on Monday and played the launch that night, people knew the songs and part of the raps and choruses.
&quot;I was very humbled. They’d only had it for five or six hours and it was already embedded in their heads. We genuinely couldn’t be more proud of our record.”
 Try our quick showbiz quiz below: 

