Lesley Riddoch has responded to criticism she faced last week over a &pound;1320 payment for chairing a council conference on poverty.
The anti-poverty campaigner contacted the Daily Record yesterday to explain the breakdown of that payment and why she decided to donate her full fee to charity.
Riddoch said: “The sum was negotiated between an agent who books speakers and the council. He was paid the &pound;1320 – not me.
“He took his fee and VAT, which he is legally obliged to charge, from the total.
“The sum I was paid was &pound;850 plus expenses of &pound;80 – mostly mileage calculated at the standard council rate of 45p a mile for a 142-mile return journey from my home.
“In hindsight, I think &pound;850 was still too much to be paid for a one-day conference on poverty.
“I should have charged my standard rate for charitable events of &pound;250 for a day’s work – even though the speech I gave (with slides) took a full day’s preparation, half a day boning up on the conference itself and another day travelling there and back home to chair it.
“In the past I’ve managed to catch ‘overpayments’ like this, but since fees are negotiated between the client and an agent it’s very easy to miss. Still, that was my mistake.
“I have since donated the full sum to South Lanarkshire Women’s Aid, who have a myriad of good uses for the cash.
“There are two larger points to make. I am self-employed and very often the only non-salaried person in the room at professional and even charitable events.
“That’s why any fee will show up as a conference expense while other speakers present are there as part of their job and expenses are paid by employers. No one else covers the costs of time or travel for the self-employed.
“Secondly, the vast bulk of my time is spent racing about Scotland doing talks to all sorts of voluntary and charitable groups on the themes of welfare, housing, poverty, renewable energy and local democracy.
“I make no charge for these events – more than 200 of them in the past 18 months – but usually ask &pound;20 for petrol.”
Try your hand at our news quiz

