A TOP BBC Scotland executive is to change jobs after a bullying row involving the daughter of legendary nationalist Margo MacDonald.
John Boothman is to leave his position as the broadcasters’s head of news and current affairs to work on the corporation’s Charter renewal bid.
Confirmation of his departure was made in an email to staff on Tuesday.
Boothman, who has headed news operations since June 2011, will be replaced by interim head Peter MacRae.
The journalist has been with the BBC for more than 30 years and recently oversaw general election and Scottish independence referendum coverage.
The development came after it emerged Boothman had an official grievance upheld against him after he was taped making a series of offensive remarks about camerawoman Zoe MacDonald.
The incident dates back to February when Boothman and an HR executive had the conversation in a broadcasting gallery at the corporation’s Edinburgh studios.
They thought they were speaking privately but had not realised the microphones were switched on and Ms MacDonald could hear the entire discussion from the neighbouring room.
She recorded the conversation on her mobile phone and was able to submit it as evidence when she raised a complaint about Boothman’s behaviour with management.
Sources familiar with the content of the recording told the Record it contained several “deeply offensive remarks” about Zoe MacDonald and also made reference to her late mother.
Ms MacDonald has subsequently been off work with long term stress.
 

Her complaint was upheld last month and Boothman has since made a “fulsome apology” over the incident.
The row is the latest in a long line of conflicts between Boothman and news staff at BBC Scotland.
There are still lingering resentments against the manager for the way bracing cuts to staffing and budgets were implemented in recent years.
The latest BBC Scotland staff survey found only 16% had confidence in Boothman’s management.
In an email to staff, BBC Scotland Director Ken McQuarrie said: “We are now entering the most important period of work ahead of the forthcoming Charter Review discussions as we shape our plans for the future of BBC Scotland.
“I am writing to let you know that John Boothman, Head of News and Current Affairs will be joining the team working on Scotland’s proposals for Charter Review.
“Working to Bruce Malcolm, he will play a key role focussing on service development for Scotland including our news offer for audiences for the new Charter period.
“Pete MacRae will take on the role of Head of News and Current Affairs on an interim basis until a permanent appointment is made.”
Boothman was unavailable for comment.

 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

