The daughter of legendary Scottish nationalist Margo MacDonald is at the centre of a BBC bullying row after a senior manager was taped making a series of offensive remarks about her.
Staff at the broadcaster’s Glasgow HQ are said to be “spitting feathers” at the treatment of camerawoman Zoe MacDonald by BBC Scotland’s head of news and current affairs John Boothman.
The row dates back to February when Boothman and an HR executive had the conversation in a broadcasting gallery at the corporation’s Edinburgh studios.
They thought they were speaking privately but had not realised the microphones were switched on and Ms MacDonald could hear the entire discussion from the neighbouring room.

She recorded the conversation on her mobile phone and was able to submit it as evidence when she raised a complaint about Boothman’s behaviour with management.
Sources familiar with the content of the recording told the Record it contained several “deeply offensive remarks” about Zoe MacDonald and also made reference to her famous mother.
Ms MacDonald has subsequently been off work with long term stress.
Her complaint was officially upheld last month and Boothman’s future at the broadcaster now looks in doubt despite him personally apologising to Ms MacDonald for the incident.
BBC Scotland controller Ken MacQuarrie is expected to reveal Boothman’s fate in the coming days with union leaders hinting they would push for industrial action if they do not believe the outcome is satisfactory.
 

It is the second high profile BBC bullying complaint MacQuarrie has had to consider this year. He was also tasked with investigating the conduct of Top Gear presenter Jeremy Clarkson after he threw a punch at a producer in a row over catering.
Clarkson was eventually sacked from the high profile show in what was regarded as a test case for the BBC’s new bullying and grievance procedures.
The new guidelines were drawn up in response to an inquiry by Dinah Rose QC, established after the Jimmy Savile scandal.
The row is the latest in a long line of conflicts between Boothman and news staff at BBC Scotland.
There are still lingering resentments against the manager for the way bracing cuts to staffing and budgets were implemented in recent years.
The latest BBC Scotland staff survey found only 16% had confidence in his .management.
The NUJ’s Scottish organiser Paul Holleran claimed almost ten BBC Scotland staff members have needed counselling for stress in the last year.
There are also fears the controversy could rekindle anger at the national broadcaster from sections of Scottish independence supporters.
There were frequent accusations of BBC “bias” against the Yes side during the referendum campaign. Alex Salmond has attacked the BBC’s coverage, and there was a mass demonstration outside BBC Scotland’s headquarters days before the September vote.
Margo MacDonald, who died in April last year after four decades at the forefront of Scottish politics, was a lifelong campaigner for independence.
Boothman is married to Susan Deacon, a former Labour minister and MSP.
Given the political sensitivities, politicians of all parties have been briefed on the row by the BBC.
An SNP Westminster insider said: “This is a serious and sensitive matter about the culture within a major institution in Scotland and across the UK.
“It’s not a political issue, but there is a strong public interest in view of the BBC’s unique status as a public service broadcaster, funded by its viewers.
“Because of that and the nature of the issue, the BBC would be wise to deal with it in as open and transparent a way as possible.”
A Scottish Labour spokesman said: “All claims of bullying must be taken very seriously and thoroughly investigated, particularly when it involve the public service broadcaster.”
A BBC Scotland spokesman said: “It would be improper, and unfair on individual employees, for us to comment on internal staff matters – so we won’t do so.
“Journalism is a crucial part of the BBC’s output and we have made it clear in recent months that our news staff are both highly valued and have our full support.
“Senior BBC executives recently outlined very publicly some of the difficulties our reporting staff have faced during both the referendum and the general election – and offered unqualified support and praise for the work our reporting staff have done during two highly charged political campaigns.
“We are acutely aware that our staff, both in News and in all our other departments, are our key asset – and we will continue to work with them to ensure they feel motivated and valued.”
Boothman was unavailable for comment.
 Try your hand at our news quiz 

