Perth dentist Mike San and his wife Lyn are saddling-up for a canal-side charity challenge.
Lyn (50) is on the road to recovery after winning her fight with breast cancer.
And the couple are determined to acknowledge their debt to the caring team at Maggie’s Dundee during the recovery process.
Mike (54) said: “After the initial diagnosis in November 2013, Lyn underwent the ‘Breast Cancer Max’ package of surgery, chemotherapy, radiotherapy and hormone therapy from the fantastic NHS Tayside Multi-Discipline Team.
“Thanks to them Lyn is now fit and well and we are all so grateful that she is still with us.
“If the teams at Ninewells and PRI saved her life undoubtedly Maggie’s Dundee saved her sanity.”
Now the grateful family and friends are taking on a 54-mile Sponsored Cycle Ride on July 4 from Edinburgh to Glasgow, along the Forth/Clyde and Union Canal tow paths, from Ratho to Bowling Basin.
Kids Alistair (16), Catriona (14) and Andrew (12) are joining mum and dad.
There is also a team from Perth’s Caledonian Dental Care and friends and family are joining in.
“After finishing her chemo and radiotherapy last year, Lyn’s energy levels were at rock bottom,” recalled Mike.
“But it was at that point that Lyn began to think of a way to acknowledge our gratitude to the staff and give something back to Maggie’s Dundee.
“So a ‘Cunning Plan’ was developed which led to us organising the charity bike ride when Lyn was up to it.
“She is very determined and her goal now is completing all 54 miles.
“It won’t be easy but over the past six months, when her health has allowed, Lyn has been out on her bike trying to build up her fitness levels.
“In the early days, when she wasn’t feeling too strong she would accompany me on the tandem. Our favourite trip was the picturesque route around Loch Leven, stopping at Vane Farm for some refreshments and a quick look at the birdlife.”
Now Lyn is preparing for the challenge which helped spur her on during the recovery phase.
Keen cyclist Mike’s dry run of the route surprised him.
“I wanted to make sure the challenge was testing but viable.
“It is actually a very interesting and scenic route considering you’re passing through the Central Belt.
“It takes in the viaduct near Linlithgow, the Falkirk Tunnel, the Falkirk Wheel, Auchinstarry Marina, the Maryhill flight of five locks and, crucially, the pub at lock 27 for light refreshments with only eight miles to go!
“We’ll be passing under the Erskine Bridge to finish at Bowling Basin where the canal enters the Clyde.
“Lyn has a few cycling buddies who have been out training with her and they hope to complete the challenge in around eight to 10 hours.”
Reflecting on her recovery, Lyn said: “We’d like to thank all those who have helped me along the road to recovery.
“Maggie’s Centres provide practical, emotional and social support to people with cancer, and their families.
“The buildings are individually designed and are havens of peace and tranquillity at what is a pretty frightening and unpleasant time.
“I was supported along with the rest of the family through every stage of my treatment.
“Maggie’s Centres are completely charitably funded and rely on sponsored events like this.”
If you would like to sponsor Lyn and Mike visit www.justgiving.com Lyn and Mike San (Lyn and Mikes Edinburgh to Glasgow Canal Path Cycling Challenge) or by Text Giving Text EGCP47&pound;5 to donate &pound;5.
