I SWEAR, nature will be the end of me.
This weekend I slept in a cabin beside Lochgoilhead on the west coast. I took part in a number of outdoor adventure activities and I set my alarm for 7am every morning. That’s right, on a weekend.

Lochgoilhead National Activity Centre was quite nicely equipped. They catered for my lactose intolerance by supplying me with numerous dairy-free desserts and the room I slept in was warm and had an en suite.
I came back to Glasgow exhausted, loaded with the cold and scratching midge stings, which somehow managed to get themselves onto my backside.
I’ve always been a city girl, really. As much as I love the outdoors, I am far more at home with a tent that comes with the additional porch option and muffin toaster than I am sitting on a sail boat in the middle of a loch in the sodding wet rain. Sunshine seems to resent my presence in the countryside and makes a swift exit before I realise I forgot to pack my wellies.

On a boat trip on this particular weekend a bright and cheerful young man - who seemed to be an expert in everything outdoors related - took us out to the middle of the loch. I liked him. He seemed confident and so I wasn’t too nervous about losing my life to over-enthusiastic seals bobbing beside the boat on this occasion.

He took us to see several very pretty spots around the loch, and it wasn’t long before I managed to steer the conversation from main masts and port sides to house prices in the area and what you could get for under 100k.

You can take the girl out of the city, but you can’t take the current state of the economic housing inflation out of the girl.

 


I enjoyed the sailing trip, although the downside was sitting in the pouring rain for an hour whilst I slowly felt my pants fill with the freshest rainwater Scotland had to offer. The walk back to the lodge was less than enjoyable.

This place truly was beautiful, but in the sunshine it really glowed.
The country treks, the climbing, the archery and the water sports were really very fun, and the staff were delightfully patient and endlessly positive.

They stayed quiet when I nervously jabbered on about work in an effort to avoid midges. They calmed members of the group down when they had sudden bouts of vertigo on the side of small hills. They even kept the dining area open a little while longer so we could sit up and chat. I was impressed with this place and would go back again in a heartbeat.
I would perhaps pack some thicker jumpers and waterproof trousers, though. And an endless supply of spare pants.
