A MORONIC driver was captured on film mounting a kerb in a residential area during a high-speed pursuit.
The car, a blue Volkswagen Passat, failed to stop after it ran into the back of a black Mercedes ML in north Aberdeen.
Footage published on the Scotland’s Worst Drivers website, captured by a dashcam on the Mercedes, shows the incident and the chase that followed.
But it is clear from the film that the victim of the hit-and-run is also guilty of reckless driving.
Police have urged motorists not to take the law into their own hands.
Both vehicles entered a housing estate on Provost Rust Drive with a 20mph speed limit and sped dangerously from street to street.
Shocked pedestrians were captured on film watching the chase as the cars raced along Moir Crescent and failed to stop at a junction.
They then cut corners at speed on Cummings Park Circle and appeared oblivious to speed bumps on Muir Green.
The pursuit finally ends when the Passat driver mounts a pavement to escape at the Quarry Centre on Cummings Park Crescent.
The driver of the dash cam car, who reported the incident to police, told the website: “Luckily there was a nice big tow bar on the back of my three ton Mercedes.”
The dramatic chase happened at 7.13pm on Tuesday June 9 and lasted five minutes.
The website said a SORN (Statutory Off Road Notification) has been issued for the Passat and is not on the Motor Insurers Database.
But it does have a valid MOT.
 

A Police Scotland spokesman said: “Investigations are ongoing following an incident of failing to stop and report of an accident and subsequent driver behaviour.
“The incident is believed to have happened around 7pm on Tuesday, 9 June, 2015, on the A90 between the Haudagain roundabout and Murdo’s roundabout in Aberdeen.
“The incident involved a Mercedes ML and a blue Volkswagen Passat.
“The incident was recorded on a dash cam which was attached to the Mercedes vehicle. We would urge motorists in the first instance to report such incidents to police rather than following anyone who may have been involved.
“Enquiries are being carried out and police would appeal to anyone who witnessed this incident to contact police on 101.”
Meanwhile, the Mercedes driver has been criticised on the Scotland’s Worst Drivers Facebook page.
Haley MacFarlane posted: “I don’t see why the driver would pursue the other car when they have dash cams on front and back to provide evidence to the police. The other driver drove off like that for a reason - leave it to the police.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

