A BURNS victim who endured a horrific blaze in which he lit up like a “human torch” may possess a miracle gene that helped him survive.
Rob Small, 36, suffered terrible burns over almost half his body which left him in a month-long coma.
Doctors said he had less than a 30 per cent chance of staying alive.
Rob, from Aberdeen, had been working as a diving instructor in Zanzibar, off the east coast of Africa, when his house caught fire and was gutted in around 20 minutes.
Trapped in the blaze, Rob tried to flee the burning wreckage but became engulfed in flames when he stepped in a puddle of petrol.
After 10 days in an African hospital, Rob flew to London and pulled through after undergoing 30 operations – baffling doctors who feared he may not survive the trip back to the UK.
Now they believe Rob may possess a mystery gene which helped save his life and he is set to face a series of tests.
More health news
 

Recalling the blaze horror, he said: “When the fire broke out it was the generator – it was small so I got a wet towel from inside my house to put it out.
“The next thing I knew half of my house was in flames. I remember running through a puddle of petrol to get out and I basically turned into a human torch.
“The first my family heard about the incident was when I was flown to London. The hospital phoned them up in Aberdeen to say I was going to die and it was urgent that they came down.”
Rob was treated at Chelsea and Westminster Hospital, where tests are being performed on him with the help of the Institute of Sport, Exercise and Health.
And the Scot is now limbering up to become the first ever unsupported burns survivor to walk to the South Pole in the From Fire to Ice expedition – and doctors believe the arduous conditions on the trip could prove he has the gene.
Dr Andre Vercueil is assessing what tests can be done on Rob during their mission. He said: “He had put himself in the position where survival was at least very difficult, if not impossible, yet somehow he survived.
“There is something within his genetics, within his response to illness, that we don’t quite understand.”
Try today's quick quiz:

