 THIS is the moment an armed robber staged a terrifying raid on a jeweller's shop in Edinburgh before escaping with &pound;233,160 worth of high value watches. 
 Matthew Ferry was jailed for 13 years today for the raid on Laing the Jeweller which a sheriff described as &quot;terrifying&quot;. 
Ferry used a realistic-looking replica pistol while leaving his deadly sub machine gun at home. The whole terrifying robbery was caught on CCTV.
Ferry, 24, who had been freed under six bail orders by sheriffs at the time, escaped despite being pursued by the managing director.
 He hijacked a private hire car with its driver and a passenger forcing the driver to go through red traffic lights to make his escape from the city centre. 
A judge told him at the High Court in Edinburgh: “It is clear this must have been terrifying for your victims - the people in the shop and the people in the taxi.”
Lord Glennie pointed out that he had also admitted possession of the prohibited MAC-10 machine gun a weapon he described as a high-powered, rapid fire gun “clearly deadly if used in anger”.
“Offences of violence of the kind perpetrated by you in carrying out the robbery and making your getaway cannot be tolerated,” he said.
 More Edinburgh news 
Lord Glennie told Ferry that he would have jailed him for a total of 17 and a half years, but for his guilty pleas.
The judge was shown footage of the robbery taking place and a ballistics expert firing the machine gun.
Unemployed Ferry staged the masked gunpoint raid on the jewellers at opening time on March 2 this year and ordered staff to put watches in a rucksack or he would shoot.
He got away with a haul of a total of 27 Rolex, Cartier and Panerai watches, but dropped three of the Rolex timepieces, worth pounds 22,300, as he fled. None of the other 24 watches has been recovered.
When armed police detained him at his grandmother’s home they found he had a Mach 10 sub machine gun and ammunition for the weapon along with heroin with a street value of more than &pound;50,000.
Ferry, of Chesser Grove, Edinburgh, admitted threatening to shoot staff at the jewellers on March 2 this year during the assault and robbery, when he appeared in court today.
He also pled guilty to abducting taxi driver David Bell and his passenger Euan Mitchell, illegal possession of the banned sub machine gun and ammunition and being concerned in the supply of the Class A drug on March 5.
The court heard that Ferry, who has previous convictions for offences including drugs, weapon possession, assault and public disorder, had been freed on bail from Edinburgh Sheriff Court six times in the months leading up to the attack.
Advocate depute Alex Prentice QC said: “The distressing nature of the incident has had a profound effect on many of the staff within Laing’s. Several staff members required counselling to death with the trauma of the event.”
The prosecutor said that the driver Mr Bell did not work for a month after his abduction due to stress and the fear caused. He added: “He is apprehensive about driving his taxi in case a similar incident happens.”
 

Mr Prentice said that when Ferry got into the jewellers he pulled a black handgun from his waistband and pointed it towards manager Jennifer Lilley and told her “Put the f---ing watches in the f---ing bag.”
Another staff member, Daniel Mitchell, was alerted by shouting and Ferry handed him a rucksack and said: “Put the f---ing watches in the f---ing bag or I’ll shoot you.”
The managing director Jonathan Payne was upstairs in the premises and got out a staff exit and went to the front entrance.
Mr Prentice said he realised that he did not have his phone and stopped a passerby and asked her to call the police.
Mr Payne saw Ferry run off from the premises and began to follow him through city centre streets. He saw the raider get into the front passenger seat of a private hire car which was pulling away in Hanover Street.
He approached people taking photos on their mobile phones and one man snapped images of the vehicle’s registration number and information was passed to the police.
Ferry got into the vehicle and took the handgun from the rucksack and waved it in the air before telling Mr Bell to move. He cocked the weapon to put what Mr Bell, who had served in the Territorial Army, thought was to put a bullet in the chamber.
He ordered the driver to take him to the Royston area of the city and warned the driver and passenger not to report him to police.
Police later learnt that another private hire car had taken him to a branch of McDonalds at Straiton retail park and CCTV footage was recovered and a detective was able to identify Ferry.
Armed officers went to Ferry’s grandmother’s home, where he lived, and detained him. During a search they recovered drugs, scales, weapons and ammunition. The submachine gun and replica handgun were underneath a coffee table.
The MAC-10, which can fire 32 bullets in less than two seconds, was in good condition and working order, the court heard.
Defence counsel Jack Davidson QC said it was accepted that Ferry had pled guilty to “very serious charges”.
Mr Davidson said Ferry felt “really bad” about how other people were affected by the offences and had asked him, via the court, to apologise.

