A FOOTBALLER who battered a man with a baseball bat in a “brutal” attack has been jailed for three years.
 Former Livingston defender Declan Gallagher , 24, left Steven Findlay, 45, with a fractured skull and bleeding on the brain following the assault outside a hotel. 
Gallagher and friend Anthony Murray, 29, attacked the former chef at the Parkville Hotel, in Blantyre, after attending a party with his family on April 21, 2013.
The court heard how trouble flared following a row earlier in the evening as Steven and his partner Marie Dockery - who had been celebrating her sister’s wedding anniversary - were leaving the venue at around 10pm.
Steven was left with two “massive splits” ontop of his head after being pummelled twice with a baseball bat swung by Gallagher.
After the attack, Steven languished in hospital’s high dependency unit for five days and required 22 staples inserted into his head.
He previously told how he had two “massive splits” on the top of his head and had lost his job as a head chef because of his traumatic injuries.
 Gallagher had previously been found guilty by jury of the assault and yesterday his lawyer pleaded with the court not to jail the footballer . 
Defending Liam O’Donnell said his client denied possessing weapon and referred to “a large number of excellent references” submitted to the court.
“I would hope your lordship accepts he doesn’t appear to be the kind of person looking for trouble that evening,” said Mr O’Donnell.
“Whatever that might have been, it would have been out of character in any event given the lack of a record and positive references.”
Pointing to the report prepared for court, Mr O’Donnell said Gallagher had been assessed as being of low risk of reoffending.
The footballer, he said, had previously been “a man of very good character” and someone who “does a lot of good things in the community”.
“He is well thought of by his peers”, said the solicitor, who added: “Whatever happened that night, it does seem to be a one-off behind a peculiar background. It’s an isolated incident.”
But Sheriff Brown told Hamilton Sheriff Court: “It was never in dispute the assault in charge two (on Mr Findlay) was a brutal attack.
“The only appropriate sentence is one of imprisonment. The only question is the length of sentence.”
 

Sheriff Brown jailed Gallagher, who has a Dundee address, and Murray, of Blantyre’s Ashley Place, for three years each for the assault on Mr Findlay.
He also sentenced Murray to four months’ imprisonment for a attacking Steven’s partner Marie Dockery in addition to the three-year jail term.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

