A cat which turned up after going missing for an incredible 18 years was put to sleep before it could be reunited with its devastated owner.
Laura Rennie, 39, could scarcely believe it when an animal welfare officer turned up at her door to tell her the pet she lost when she was 21 years old had been found - just 15 minutes from her home.
But her joy turned to despair when a vet told her that Toby would have to be put down, after being injured.
It meant she was denied a chance to say goodbye to her long-lost feline friend.
Laura, who has worked with animals for 16 years, was distraught when the vet told her she couldn't wait 20 minutes for Laura to get to the rescue centre before putting the cat to sleep.
The animal handling business owner adopted Toby when it was just four weeks old after it had been abandoned.
 

But when Toby was one year old, the female tabby and white cat went outside and disappeared.
After three months of putting up posters near her house in the east end of Glasgow, and searching for the young feline, Laura gave up, thinking her pet was gone forever.
She said: &quot;I've felt every emotion you can imagine in the space of 32 hours.
&quot;I was 20 years old when I rescued her. She was an outdoor cat and when she was one year old she just never came back.
 
&quot;I felt complete shock and stunned the cat had been alive.
&quot;Then we were trying to figure out how we could integrate her into the house as my mum has a cat. I got out the cat bed.
&quot;But then I realised she was going to get put down and I was not going to get to see her.
&quot;It turned out quite nasty.&quot;
Toby's owners were traced as the cat had been microchipped, meaning the Scottish Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SSPCA) could contact Laura straight away.
 

She said: &quot;I think it was in Tollcross Toby was found, just 15 minutes along the road.
&quot;But unfortunately she had been hit by a car. A chap had found her in his garden and phoned the SSPCA.&quot;
An inspector from the SPCA then visited the house and told Laura's mum Toby had been found.
They were then asked if they would be willing to take her home and could pay for the operation to amputate the cat's injured leg.
But the next day after phoning the SSPCA's Bothwell Rescue Centre, Laura was phoned back by a vet who told her Toby would in fact need to be put to sleep.
Laura said: &quot;She was really cold and factual and really rude.
&quot;She said, 'Look your cat has made it to 19 years, it's better to put it to sleep'.&quot;
Laura said the vet told her the cat had been &quot;made comfortable&quot; before asking to visit it.
But she claims the vet responded by telling her there was &quot;no point&quot; and &quot;no benefit to be gained for you or the cat&quot;.
Stunned at the vet's attitude, Laura told her to put Toby to sleep and ended the call.
Laura said: &quot;She made it quite clear I was not welcome.
&quot;I also believe that if Tobys' injuries were so severe, that it would have been in her best interests to be put to sleep as soon as the extent of her injuries were discovered, rather than 'making her comfortable' overnight and halfway through the next morning.
&quot;If the vet was going to deny me access to my cat, why keep her alive longer than necessary?&quot;
Laura has also not been able to take Toby's body home for burial with the cat's sister, which died not long after being rescued.
She said: &quot;I was not allowed to take her home. Her body would just have been put in the incinerator.
&quot;I had Toby's sister too and her body is buried in the garden. It would have been nice to get her back.&quot;
She has complained to the SSPCA about the vet's behaviour and received an apology from the chief veterinary officer at the rescue centre.
She was also told she should have been allowed to visit.
A Scottish SPCA spokesman said: &quot;We rescued Toby after she was found in extremely poor condition and were able to alert her owner through her microchip details.
&quot;It is remarkable that Toby was found so long after she went missing and also very sad that she was suffering so greatly.
&quot;Our vet advised Ms Rennie that it may be too upsetting for her to see Toby given her condition, however, we do understand why the owner wished to have the opportunity to say goodbye.
&quot;We are very sorry this situation was not handled more sensitively, as it normally would be.&quot;
It is a mystery where Toby spent the past 18 years, but Laura believes she was looked after by someone else as it was unlikely the cat would have survived the winter.
