A HOODED man who stood in the centre of Glasgow with his arms outstretched received 60 hugs in just 20 minutes.
Scots actor Neil Leiper carried out the blind experiment next a sign which read: “I trust you, do you trust me?”
Neil is used to playing tough guys like Cammy Tennant in River City, Sniper in The Angel’s Share and gang leader Kenzie in Fleeto and Wee Andy.
But he admitted being blindfolded on Buchanan Street and having to trust strangers was one of the scariest things he’s ever done.
He said: “It was terrifying because what I was doing was making myself vulnerable.
“It’s the fear of the unknown.
“But I had absolute faith in Glaswegians.
“They are stigmatized very, very wrongly.
“I knew this would go down well.”
The video, which has been posted on YouTube, was a social experiment by the national Violence Reduction Unit.
The project was designed to show how Glasgow, which was once the murder capital of Western Europe, has changed in the ten years since the VRU’s launch.
And it only took a couple of minutes for the first person to take Neil up on his offer of free hugs.
Thereafter a steady stream of passers by, of all ages and backgrounds, stopped to give him a cuddle.
 

Some even returned for second hug.
Neil said: “It was so overwhelming.
“I had a real lump in my throat.
“I couldn’t believe how amazing it was.
“Some people just gave me a wee hug to say they had done it, but with others it was a real embrace and you could feel the emotion in it.
“The smile was never off my face under that hood.
“I still get emotional thinking about it.
“It completely restored my faith in humanity.
“I trusted the people of Glasgow and they trusted me.
“We should all hug more.”
The fun experiment was also designed to tackle what social psychologists call the bystander effect - when people are less likely to get involved when something happens if other people are around.
VRU director Karyn McCluskey said: “I see such a huge change in Scotland and in Glasgow particularly - we have changed and are still changing - we are safer, more connected, more hopeful.
“I used to show professionals CCTV from over a decade ago, where people walk by a crime happening, where people don’t intervene.
“However I know that it’s different now, and I wanted to show those who think that Scotland is stereotyped by violence, by drink that we are far away from that.
“So many men, women and young people reached out on the street, to a stranger, and it was an emotive experience.”
The VRU runs the Mentors in Violence Prevention Programme which trains secondary children how not to be bystanders and to safely intervene in such situations as sexting, dating violence and bullying.
The VRU was set up in 2005 by the then Strathclyde Police to target all forms of violent behaviour, especially knife crime.
In April 2006 its remit was extended to cover the whole of Scotland.It now works with partner agencies in the health, education and social services sectors.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

