SCOTTISH dentistry is in crisis and soaring stress levels due to financial worries and red tape could leave a huge hole in the service within the next 10 years.
Senior respected dentists from across the country have spoken out to tell of their fears of a bleak future.
Most have experienced cuts of up to &pound;17,000 a year in wages since 2009 and increased paperwork pressures and complaints to the General Dental Council have left many ready to walk away from the profession.
One of the country’s leading dentists, Robert Donald, 55, from Nairn in the Highlands, said the NHS payment system is no longer fit for purpose.
He warned: “It is leading to death by a thousand cuts.”
Robert added: “There is growing evidence that stress levels are getting worse. There is a dental health support programme, set up to help dentists who get into difficulty with alcohol, drugs or mental health issues.
“There has been an increase in numbers of referrals in the last few years as well as anecdotal evidence about dentists being more stressed.
“If stress levels rise to the point where it affects the way you live and work, it can have serious consequences, including suicide or an early death due to stress-related illnesses.
“Some dentists have already died because of stress in the workplace.”
He explained: “There are a load of issues. Dentists are health care professionals but also run a business. In the last few years, there has been quite a large pay cut. The average wage in 2008 was &pound;85,000, which is a lot of money. 
“But dentists also have all the stresses of running a business and paying staff and premises. The latest figures show the average wage is now &pound;68,000. That’s a massive drop.”
It has come after the introduction of pay restraints by the Scottish Government.
Robert added: “Compare that to some doctors who earn well over &pound;100,000 now.
“We were always comparable with doctors’ income but now it has dropped. In Scotland, we are the lowest paid dental practitioners in the whole of the UK.”
In March, the Government announced an increase in fees of 1.6 per cent but that is a drop in the ocean.
And the increase was funded by a clawback of overpayments made to dentists since 2006 by the Scottish Dental Practitioner Services – the organisation who pay dentists.
Holyrood introduced continuous patient registration, which means that even if you haven’t attended your dentist for a number of years, you are not automatically taken off the books.
Dentists receive a payment for every registered patient but get less if the person hasn’t visited for a few years.
However, when the names were computerised, some were spelled incorrectly or entered using a short form of a name which the SDPS claimed had led to duplications of entries.
Robert explained: “Dentists didn’t realise until a couple of years ago that this had been happening when the SDPS decided to go back to 2006 and claw back all funds for dentists who had been paid in error.
“Some dentists had &pound;20,000 clawed back. They had already spent money on equipment and staffing.
“Last year, the Government clawed it all back – &pound;3.2million of it. This has caused real low morale in Scotland.”
But he said pay was not the only source of stress. He revealed: “There is stress from an increase in regulation from the General Dental Council – and increases in costs.
“Dentists are going to get into trouble for the slightest thing. If a patient complains, it quite quickly escalates.
“Dentists are worried that anybody could come up with some spurious complaint which could go all the way to a hearing at the GDC in London.
“It is a policy of the representative committee in Scotland that there should be a local Scottish-based GDC. That would be a better solution.
“We have asked the Government for that but they say they have no plans to do it. At the moment, it is a reserved matter. Health is devolved but regulation is not.”
Paperwork is also a huge issue.
Robert said: “If there was less bureaucracy then dentists could spend more time treating patients rather than form filling. All these factors come together to put pressure on dentists. It is like a perfect storm of issues.”
And he revealed: “Most people are counting the days until they retire – they want out of the profession. That’s not good for them or the patient. There will come a breaking point. More of our more senior colleagues are finding it tough to cope with the stresses.
“But the drop in salary and less than ideal working conditions could have the effect of making dentistry less popular as a profession and if dentists retire early or chuck it, access to dental care could be a problem in the next 10 years.
“People are looking after their teeth better now but as they get older, they are less able to look after themselves and less able to look after their teeth so they need more dental care.
“The last access problem was in 2005. If the Government don’t recognise these issues, in another 10 years the access problem could be back again in full swing.”
One senior west of Scotland dentist said: “I have never known morale to be as low. There are dentists of all ages wanting out of the profession because of the stresses.
“Doctors have had wage increases where we have had wage cuts. The argument is doctors save lives whereas we are just seen to fix teeth.
“But part of our job is to detect things like mouth cancer. I’ve helped save the lives of people who have come for a check-up unaware they had cancer.”
Scottish Labour health spokeswoman Jenny Marra said: “We know there are people struggling to get a dentist. This will only get worse if businesses close.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

