A TEENAGER was fighting for life last night after collapsing at a house party.
Amy Thomson, 16, has been in a coma since falling ill a week ago. Three other girls, aged 15, 17 and 18, were also taken to hospital.
Police have arrested three people for alleged drug offences. Officers are waiting for the results of toxicology tests and investigating claims by friends that the girls had taken ecstasy.
Last night, Amy’s condition in the new South Glasgow Hospital was described as critical but stable.
Her family and friends were praying she would pull through.
Amy’s gran Maureen Woods wrote on social media: “We’re on day seven of our nightmare.
“Our Amy’s very ill but still here on Earth with us.
“She’s my wee broken doll just now. I’m pleading with God for a wee miracle.
“We need her so much. Sweet 16, she’s my granddaughter, my wee pal.” Please keep saying prayers for her.”
Former Rosshall Academy pupil Amy, of Pollok, is a student at Glasgow Clyde College.
She and the other girls fell ill at the party in Knightswood around 4.15pm last Wednesday.
The three others have been released from hospital.
Amy’s cousin Kayla McLeod wrote on Facebook: “There’s my beautiful wee cousin. You’ll pull through my girl. I love you.”
 

Pal May Warren wrote: “Cum on wee selfie queen, wake up wee sleeping beauty.”
 Leigh-Anne Fredrikkson added: “Here’s hoping all our prayers are being answered  and she’s on her way back. Still sending prayers. Come on, Amy. Keep fighting, angel.” 
Family friend Angie Lawrie wrote: “Thinking of you, Amy, all the time. Praying that you and your family do just fine.”
A police spokesman said: “We are investigating the cause of the illness and our inquiries are ongoing.
“A man aged 33 and two women aged 17 and 18 have been reported to the procurator fiscal for alleged drugs offences.”
A relative, who did not wish to be named, said Amy’s family were too upset to speak about their ordeal.
In January, police launched an investigation into a possible batch of rogue drugs after Richie Carrigan, 24, died and two pals aged 16 and 23 were left seriously ill following a house party in Kirkintilloch, East Dunbartonshire. They had allegedly taken ecstasy.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

