A SCOTS holidaymaker who ran amok on a jet bound for Turkey - forcing it to land at Gatwick so he could be arrested - has been jailed for nine months.
Andrew Tosh, from Dundee, sexually assaulted a woman on the Thomas Cook flight from Glasgow to Dalaman on May 6.
Drunken Tosh admitted charges of sexual assault, threatening and abusive behaviour, assault by beating and being drunk on an aircraft at Lewes Crown Court last month.
He has now been handed a nine-month jail term for his rampage.
Airline chiefs welcomed the sentence given to Tosh - who was previously convicted in his home city of a bizarre carjacking attack in another lengthy rampage two years ago.
The flight was forced to land in Gatwick after the pilot and cabin crew were left concerned at his behaviour.
Cabin crew then asked fellow passengers if they would help restrain him if things got out of hand.
Tosh admitted being drunk on an aircraft, threatening behaviour, sexual assault and assault when he appeared at court.
Passenger Jimmy Costello told how he had to step in to help restrain Tosh.
He said: &quot;The cabin crew started moving the people who were seating behind him and they spoke to him, trying to keep him calm.
&quot;People were saying that he was a bad flyer and that he got really nervous.
&quot;It was arranged to divert the plane. As we were coming down he was shouting that we were going to crash.
&quot;It was an all female cabin crew and they had asked if I would help them to restrain the passenger if things got out of hand.
&quot;I held his wrists against his chest and I held him down until the plane landed.&quot;
A spokeswoman for the Crown Prosecution sentence said Tosh was jailed for nine months for the sexual assault, two months for threatening and abusive behaviour, four months for assault by beating and six months for being drunk on an aircraft.
The sentences will be served concurrently.
A spokesman for Thomas Cook Airlines said: &quot;For the benefit of our customers' and employees' comfort and safety, we have a zero-tolerance approach to disruptive behaviour on our flights and, fortunately, incidents as serious as this are very rare.
&quot;Currently, our booking systems don't give us the ability to ban disruptive passengers permanently but we fully assisted Sussex Police and the Crown Prosecution Service in bringing this case forward and hope the victims in the incident are satisfied with the outcome.&quot;
The prison sentence for the aircraft incident is not Tosh's first jail term over a bizarre rampage in public.
In 2013 Tosh was given a year in prison after a carjacking incident that &quot;scared the life&quot; out of his victim.
Tosh then went on to attack betting shop workers and police before eventually being restrained using tear gas after &quot;dancing around&quot; one of the cops.
Tosh got into Jacqueline Spence's car as she sat at lights in Dundee's Hilltown - telling her: &quot;This is a hold-up, take me to somewhere beginning with 'T'.&quot;
She panicked and fled the motor before Tosh got out.
Ten minues later Tosh went into a Ladbrokes store and dumped betting slips and pens on the floor - before punching a worker who told him to leave.
Police raced to the scene - where Tosh took a swing at PC David Sinclair before starting to dance round the officer, laughing.
He was eventually apprehended when the cop took out his CS gas and sprayed Tosh in the eyes.
A sheriff jailed Tosh for a year over that incident - and told him he was lucky not to have been prosecuted on indictment, which could have meant a maximum of up to five years in prison.

