SCOTLAND’S vilest troll twins have been linked to sickening new messages about a coma teen left fighting for her life after a house party.
Horrified members of the public lifted the lid on a shocking exchange which appears to show the Borland brothers and pals mocking 16-year-old Amy Thomson as she lies in her hospital bed.
While scores of messages of support have been paid to the popular college student online, the source who sent us the sceen grabs said they were “disgusted” by what they had seen on a private Facebook thread by people the Glasgow teenager would consider friends.
Comments by Sean Gallagher - a close pal of both Calvin and Calum Borland - are too vile to be repeated and are followed up by a sound clip posted from Calvin’s account called “Amy’s organs”.
Calum responds, “Best wan yet,” while another pal added to the group writes, “Yous c**ts are too sick for me”.
 

A close relative of Sean - who did not want to be named - condemned the messages today and said the family was already aware of them.
The 20-year-old did not respond to our attempts to contact him - nor did the Borland twins.
The screen grabs surfaced seven months after we exposed the twins for mocking murdered toddler Madison Horn online.
 

The Record revealed today how Amy fell ill at a house party in Knightswood last Wednesday afternoon, along with three other girls aged 15, 17 and 18.
The other girls were released from hospital soon after, while Amy has remained in a coma for the last week. Police have arrested three people for alleged drug offences and are waiting for the results of toxicology tests after investigating claims by friends that the girls had taken ecstasy.
Former Rosshall Academy pupil Amy, of Pollok, is a student at Glasgow Clyde College.
Medics at the new South Glasgow Hospital have described her condition as critical but stable.
Countless messages have been left on social media for the pretty teen and her family in the days since her collapse.
Pal May Warren wrote: “Come on wee selfie queen, wake up wee sleeping beauty.”
But the vile messages sent to the Record are said to have have come as a massive blow to some of her friends who witnessed them.
In November last year, we confronted 20-year-olds Calum and Calvin Borland over pictures on both of their pages mocking tragic Madison, two, after she was beaten to death by her mum’s partner Kevin Park with a pool cue in Fife.
 

Relatives have been to upset to speak about the incident but her grandmother Maureen Woods has been updating family and friends through Facebook.
Yesterday she posted a picture of our front page and described the family’s ordeal as a “nightmare”.
She wrote: “I don’t think I need to say anything else. This is why I’m praying with all I have in me, and asking everybody else to pray for our girl Amy.
“Please please please God, let us keep Amy here on earth with us, we need her in our lives. My wee dolls broken. “She’s got the best team of Doctors n Nurses caring for her 24/7 &amp; her wee Mums by her side. They’re fighting to save Amy’s life round the clock. It’s very frightening, as anyone can imagine. Thankyou to everyone saying/sending prayers for Amy. Please keep praying for her.”
The gran also posted a photo of Amy with her mum Trica and paid tribute to her devoted daughter.
She wrote: “Hey my wee girl Tricia. You’re doin a grand job supporting wee Amy . I’m praying to God all the time for him to grant us a wee miracle. To help us keep our wee Amy on this earth with us. We need her in our lives.... please God please please please hear our prayers.”
Police Scotland were still investigating the cause of Amy’s illness yesterday.
A spokeswoman said: “A man aged 33 and two women aged 17 and 18 have been reported to the procurator fiscal for alleged drugs offences.”
