AN obsessed boyfriend has been jailed for 10 months after he subjected his partner to a “reprehensible” assault.
 Robert Carson lashed out after finding it difficult to accept the breakdown in his relationship with Rachel Crawford, Paisley Sheriff Court heard. 
In August last year, he phoned her and flew into a rage over comments she made, before racing to her home and attacking her.
The court heard how he compressed her neck and restricted her breathing, pushed her against a fence, repeatedly punched her, causing her to fall to the ground where he pinned her bodily.
When he appeared shamefaced in the dock, he admitted committing the attack on a footpath at Heron Way, Renfrew.
The assault only ended when others intervened.
The court was told that Carson, 30, was heavily intoxicated at the time and had a history of alcohol and substance abuse.
Sentence had been deferred for background reports to be prepared and, when he returned to court to learn his fate, defence agent Rhona Lynch said that her client had been so shocked by events of that date that he had totally abstained from alcohol  and illicit substances  since.
He had voluntarily attended a programme aimed at making big changes in his life and had successfully completed that, to the extent that it had been determined that there was no longer any further focus for treatment.
“He is essentially a changed man,” said the lawyer.
“He engages in meditation and his mother says that she has seen a complete change in him.”
The court heard that Carson had been in full-time employment for 10 years and imprisonment would result in “catastrophic consequences”.
Ms Lynch said that although his ex-partner wanted nothing more to do with him and had started a new relationship, she had some good things to say about him.
 She said that Carson, of Dakota Way, Renfrew , came from a decent and respectful background and had been shocked by his own actions. 
The court heard his conduct had been sparked by comments she made which he could not  accept and caused him to snap.
“He was somewhat obsessed by Ms Crawford at the time and the relationship didn’t work out,” added the solicitor, “and he acted in a reprehensible way.
“But he has since then utterly transformed his life, is also in a new relationship and is dreading the thought of custody.”
 Depute fiscal Mohammed Sarwar said that the victim was seeking a Non-Harrassment Order to be put in place to give her peace of mind. 
After studying background reports and considering submissions, Sheriff Tom McCartney said that the offence was so serious that imprisonment could not be avoided.
“I take into account all that has been said, but the gravity of this offence is such that no sentence other than imprisonment is appropriate,” he said, jailing him for 10 months.
He also made Carson the subject of a three-year Non Harrassment Order.

