A tiny island which was crime free for 40 years has been struck by TWO 'raids' on separate shops.
The Mirror reported yesterday how the Hebridean island of Canna, which has a population of just 26, had been rocked by theft from its community store.
A second raid has now been reported on the island's beauty shop which reported having cash, bath oils, shower gel and body butter stolen.
The new raid happened at the SAME time as the first theft - between Friday and Saturday - and saw criminals target Hebridean Beauty at Canna Pier and make off with &pound;120 in goods.
In the first raid, thieves cleared the shelves of the store on Canna and made off with sweets, chocolate bars, coffee, biscuits, toiletries and batteries.
They even stole six hand-knitted wool hats made by shop manager Julie McCabe.
 
Both shops operated an honesty box where people wrote down their purchasers and left the money.
 

Colin Irvine, chairman of the Isle of Canna Development Trust - which runs Hebridean Beauty - said: &quot;It has obviously all been done at the same time.
&quot;It is definitely someone who has come on to the island. It was probably just an opportunist.
&quot;An honesty box basis is the way things work here. It has always worked really well. I also run the guest house and we have not got the time to be down there all the time.
&quot;It means sailors can go in and shop later in the day on the way back to their boats. It lets us get more sales that way.
&quot;We don't know what to do about it. We are thinking about putting CCTV in. This has spoiled things a little bit for people.&quot;
The island normally has a crime rate of zero and has no police station or even a special constable.
The community shop, which sells gifts, crafts and groceries, is also owned by the Isle of Canna Community Development Trust and is mainly run by volunteers.
It is left open round the clock so that sailors, fishermen and kayakers can use the free wi-fi and help themselves to a cup of tea or coffee.
 

People who buy groceries make a note of what they have taken in a book and leave the money in an honesty box.
Islanders have been left dismayed by the theft.
The last time a crime of dishonesty was committed on Canna is believed to have been in the 1960s, when a carved wooden plate was stolen from the Rhu Church. It was never recovered and the case was never solved.
Miss McCabe, who runs the shop with partner Stewart Connor, said: &quot;We are all pretty gutted.
&quot;I went down and noticed a lot of items were gone. All of the sweets had been cleared out. I got that sinking feeling.
&quot;There was no money taken, just groceries to the value of &pound;200.
&quot;I am absolutely floored that someone has been in and did that to our community.
&quot;I set up the first community shop four years ago at the pier, selling gifts and crafts. We got funding for the new shop from the lottery which has allowed us to stock groceries. It has been really appreciated by visiting yachts people and fishermen.
 

&quot;We are going to have to consider locking the door at night.
&quot;It is a shame because just now people can go in, make themselves a cup of tea or coffee and use the free wi-fi.
&quot;We are thinking about putting CCTV in, but we don't want to do that because it goes against the whole honesty idea.&quot;
She added: &quot;When you live on a small island like this you have to trust your neighbour and everybody round about.
&quot;It is pretty shocking to be honest.
&quot;We don't know who did it. There were 17 yachts in the other night and there was a fishing boat at the pier. We are appealing to them if they saw or heard anything.
&quot;Somebody must have seen something. The volume of stuff they have taken is not just a case of filling your pockets.
&quot;We are just worried it could happen again.&quot;
In 2009 the isle was rocked when its former special constable was arrested.
Patrick MacKinnon became an outcast after sex attacks on women on the island and because of his heavy drinking.
Police swooped after using the Mallaig lifeboat to travel to the island, which, at the time, had a population of 11 adults and seven children
 

The following year the body of 49-year-old Patrick MacKinnon was discovered hanging at a house in Braemore Place, Fort William.
The father of two was born and brought up on the island of Canna.
When he appeared at Fort William Sheriff Court in October 2009, MacKinnon admitted two charges of sexual assault on two women in 2008.
He also admitted conducting himself in a disorderly manner by making sexual comments to one of the women and possessing two unlicensed rifles and a shotgun.
He was was put on the sex offenders' register for 15 months, ordered to do 200 hours of community service and fined &pound;700.
He lost his family, his tied house, his job and his rifles because of his heavy drinking and &quot;quite unacceptable&quot; behaviour towards women on Canna.
The court was told that sexual advances by MacKinnon, who was a special constable for 15 years, worried islanders so much that they wanted a meeting with his wife Wendy.
That sparked a &quot;domestic incident&quot; and MacKinnon's arrest. It was only then that islanders spoke out.
MacKinnon, a fisherman who worked from Mallaig, was also a handyman for Canna's owners, the National Trust for Scotland.
The trust took his house after sacking him.
He resigned as a special constable and quit the island.
