A MURDER victim found dying in the street was a feared gangland enforcer, the Record can reveal.
 Albert McDonald was wearing a pin-stripe suit when he was attacked. He was found slumped on the pavement outside a block of flats. 
The gangster, who had horrific head injuries, died on the way to hospital in Glasgow.
McDonald, 58, was well-known within the city’s crime fraternity.
He was a henchman of sadistic killer Martin Hamilton, who is on the run from police.
An underworld source said: “McDonald has been involved in shady stuff since he was a boy.
“He was always into something or other but was loyal to Hamilton.
“Whenever something needed done, no matter how brutal, McDonald was the man to turn to.
“He used to tell folk he was a bank robber and often tried to act the big man more than he was. But he wasn’t a man to be messed with.
“Obviously, someone’s taken exception to him and they have now finished him off.
“He died like so many others he will have been connected to over the years.”
More Glasgow news
 

McDonald was found injured in Cumbernauld Road, Riddrie, in the east end, about 9.30pm on Monday.
He had been drinking in the Snug bar about a mile away from about 8.30pm to 9pm.
Police are trying to establish how he got to Cumbernauld Road.
The street where McDonald was found remained cordoned off yesterday as forensic teams continued to comb the area for clues.
Police were studying CCTV footage and carrying out door-to-door inquiries.
Officers launched a murder investigation following a post mortem on McDonald on Tuesday.
 Detective Chief Inspector Laura McLuckie said: “We are following up several lines of inquiry. Mr McDonald had significant injuries and we’re trying to establish just how he sustained them by piecing  together his last known movements. 
“Understandably, his family and friends are completely devastated and specialist officers are providing them with support at this tragic time.
“It is imperative we find who is responsible for Albert’s death.”
 

 McDonald’s pal Hamilton – known as the Blackhill Butcher – has been an infamous gangland figure for  more than 20 years. 
 And he has a sickening history of violence. He once tried to gouge a man’s eye out with a spoon and  he attempted to slice a man’s finger off. 
Before justice finally caught up with him, Hamilton walked free from 12 High Court indictments for crimes including possession of firearms, a shooting, serious assault and robbery.
The 53-year-old was eventually jailed for life for offences including abduction, torture and drug-dealing.
The gangster, originally from Anderston, ordered the kidnap and torture of victims as he tried to muscle in on Edinburgh’s drug scene.
During his trial at the High Court in Inverness, the jury heard how victims were set on fire, scalded with boiling water or stabbed in the face.
In one incident, a young couple were ordered to be stabbed in a bath so they wouldn’t bleed on the carpet of the flat where they were being held hostage.
Hamilton was also convicted of dealing heroin and diazepam, threatening a man with violence, holding a knife to another man’s throat and threatening to kill him.
Jailing him for life, judge Lord Kingarth said: “You pose a substantial danger to the public.”
Hamilton was ordered to spend at least nine years in jail. He was released in September but in April police said he was on the run for breaching the conditions of his licence.
They warned the public that Hamilton is dangerous and should not be approached.
 Try today's quick quiz: 

