Scotland's largest council has forecast that it may need to make a further &pound;100m of cuts and savings in the next two years.
Glasgow City Council officials said it may need to cut spending by 7%.
The predicted savings targets are some of the toughest the council has faced.
The council expects up to 3,000 staff to leave naturally by 2017 but said there would be no compulsory redundancies.
The budget figure is only a forecast - the council will not know for sure how much money it will have next year for several months.
The council hopes to try to save as much as possible without actual cuts to services the public will notice - that could mean continuing to reduce the number of staff and finding different ways to work with its suppliers and other partners such as charities.
The single biggest cost for councils is staff and wages. It expects about 3,000 staff to leave through natural wastage over the next two years. It believes it could make big savings if as many posts as possible go unfilled.
BBC Scotland understands it is unlikely at this stage that the council will look for widespread voluntary redundancies and early retirements. Its policy of no compulsory redundancies will remain in force.
The financial forecast is contained in a paper prepared for councillors that said the council's main priorities - such as promoting economic growth and looking after its vulnerable citizens - should continue.
It also set out some of the big investment projects due in the coming years that reflect this.
These include the refurbishment of the Burrell Collection, creating a scheme to recycle food waste across the city and setting out the future of the city's library service.
Another priority is to try to do more to tackle poverty and deprivation.
In the past three financial years, Glasgow City Council has faced savings of between &pound;20m and &pound;30m, though in 2011 it had to save almost &pound;60m.
The prediction comes as the debate continues on the future of local government finance across Scotland.
As a general rule, the total amount of money councils have in their budgets has remained static or increased.
There are two main reasons why cuts and savings are needed: the impact of inflation and the expected rise in demand for individual services.
The council tax has been frozen nationally since 2007 - the terms of the freeze make it all but impossible in practice for a council to raise the council tax.
If they did raise it they would lose some government funding, so the rise would need to be significant before it would actually add significantly to their finances.
A commission set up by the Scottish government is currently looking at what are described as &quot;fairer alternatives&quot; to the council tax.
Some in local government believe the debate should also look at whether councils should have a far greater degree of financial freedom. This could mean having a number of fiscal powers to raise a greater proportion of their own budget so they were far less dependent on the Scottish government.
Despite several years of austerity, many councils have managed to avoid headline-grabbing cuts to the most popular local services. Instead, the impact has often been more indirect or localised.
Unions argue that many council services across Scotland have suffered so-called &quot;stealth cuts&quot; as budgets have been squeezed and remaining staff have faced bigger workloads. 
In many parts of the country, councillors have rejected, delayed and even reversed the most controversial proposals for direct cuts to services - sometimes in the face of strong local protests.
One of the biggest rows over cuts in Glasgow happened two years ago when the council decided to close three day care centres.
There are also signs that Glasgow City Council is having to play hardball over money.
Seventy workers in the council's Homeless Service have been on strike for more than two months in a dispute over their pay grade.
The Scottish government - which currently receives all its money from Westminster - argues it has done its best to protect local government from cuts and that the council tax freeze has been a real help to family budgets.
Glasgow currently receives the largest overall council funding in Scotland and the highest funding per head of all mainland councils. 
In the 2012 council elections, Labour said it would maintain the council tax freeze in Glasgow.
