A GLASGOW businessman once dubbed the hardest man in the city has been laid to rest.
Colin “Big Coalie” Beattie, 85, was feared by criminals and the police alike because of his power and build.
More than 500 people packed Clydebank Crematorium last week to pay tribute, including property and leisure tycoon James Mortimer and actor Dave Anderson.
Tributes were led by his son Colin, 63, a successful publican and developer in the city.
Colin, who owns the award-winning Oran Mor venue in the west end, described his father as a man of principal who knew the difference between wrong and right.
Legendary criminal lawyer the late Joe Beltrami once said Beattie, who had interests in the building industry and pub trade, was his favourite client.
In his 1988 bestseller Tales Of The Suspected, Beltrami said: “Colin Beattie, to my knowledge, has never been involved in dishonesty or violence with weapons of any type. With his height and build, the use of a weapon would not be necessary.
“He does not like to see a person taking advantage of another person less well equipped to look after himself.
“Mind you, it would be wrong to describe him as some kind of knight in shining armour.”
Beattie killed a man with a single punch in a dance hall in the west end of Glasgow but walked on the murder charge after he proved his victim was about to attack him.
When the police were going out to arrest him, they took at least eight men – all armed with wooden truncheons which were often broken while trying to subdue him.
In 1970, he was jailed for assaulting six officers and, at the height of his powers, he was said to run Partick, where he lived.
A family friend said: “There was no point in picking a fight with big Coalie Beattie because there was only ever going to be one winner.
“At the height of his powers in the 1960s and 70s, the police said he was the hardest man in Glasgow. It is difficult to argue with that.”
After the service on Wednesday morning, Beattie’s coffin was driven the short distance to nearby North Dalnottar cemetery for burial.

