 I SAID sorry yesterday. Sorry to the 700,000 Scots who voted Labour last month that, as a party, we’d failed to convince 700,000 more to vote Labour. Sorry to all those people who need a Labour government. 
 Those Scots who see the Tories on the telly licking their lips at the possibility of &pound;12billion of welfare cuts. Relishing the suspense of not knowing just where those cuts will fall and who they’ll hurt. 
 One thing I won’t apologise for, though, is banging on and on about education, the value of it and the SNP’s complete inability to “get it” . 
Education liberates people. It can free people from inherited poverty. It has the potential to be life’s great equaliser – levelling the playing field if you have access to it.
 

 A child in any P7 class in Scotland has spent their entire schooling under the SNP Government, yet the gap between the achievement of one from a wealthy background compared to that of a a kid from a poorer background is just as big as ever. 
For anyone serious about tackling inequality, that’s a disgrace.
That’s why we’ve got to do more to target resources, our money and our best teachers on the areas with the greatest challenges.
 Last week, I visited a nursery in Arden, Glasgow , which is doing amazing work, but it had a child on its books who, at just three, had all their teeth taken out because of rot, decay and abject poverty. 
 

I don’t want to live in a Scotland where that still happens. I don’t want to live in a country where what your parents earn determines how well you do at school and I don’t want to live in a country where we spend all of our time and energy debating who is to blame for that rather than doing something about it.
 That’s why I’ve put education right at the heart of my plan to lead the Scottish Labour party . 
I want to lead a party who are about people, releasing the potential of every child, every family and every community. A party who believe in using the power of government to unlock that potential. That tackles inequality without being against achievement or wealth creation.
 A party who believe in helping those with the least helps us all. 
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

