A WOMAN who made herself sick up to 10 times a day for a decade has told how her desire to be like Posh Spice left her battling bulimia.
Ali Kerr, 32, was just 13 when she compared herself to a poster of Victoria Beckham and decided to go on her first diet.
And she &shy;plummeted to less than six stone after starting to binge eat and make herself sick, which led to eating disorder bulimia nervosa.
Now Ali has told how her obsession to “purge” herself of food caused her to lose her front teeth due to acid erosion from vomiting – and almost cost her life.
The mum of two from Milngavie, near Glasgow, said: “I remember looking at a poster of Posh Spice and thinking she had thin legs while mine were more athletic.
“I cut out crisps and chocolate at first then started to restrict more of what I ate.
“I remember my first purge and thinking it was quite a clever way to eat but stay thin.
“I started &shy;planning my purges and would go to the shop and cram my mouth full of crisps and chocolate on the way home before throwing up.
 

“No one knew, this was my thing and I thought I had control – but &shy;everything spiralled out of control.
“I felt guilty for eating. I remember one time I was wracked with guilt because I’d eaten two bananas so I had to go and purge.
“In the end, I couldn’t keep anything down, my heart was constantly racing, I was freezing and tired and I looked anorexic.
“Eventually in 2004 – after battling it for 10 years and purging up to 10 times a day – I collapsed.”
Ali, then 21, confessed to boyfriend Richard – who is now her husband – and he vowed to help her recover.
Ali said: “I hid my problem from Richard for nearly three years and he was shocked when I finally told him.”
But Ali was &shy;devastated when she was told that she would be forced to wait more than six months to be seen by a psychiatrist.
 

It was then the couple began to research bulimia themselves.
Ali said: “I just felt like there was no help out there for me. We read loads of books that kept telling me I could never recover.
“Richard was brilliant and decided we were going to find our a cure, so we did a lot of thorough research.
Richard, 32, and Ali have since given up their jobs to help bulimia sufferers worldwide through their website and have written a self-help guide called The Bulimia Help Method.
Ali added: “We &shy;discovered it was beneficial to tackle the physical aspects of what triggers binge eating and food &shy;restriction.
“We trained me to eat again because I had no idea what normal was any more.
“We have now helped more than 13,000 people with bulimia.
“In the end, it is about having hope and learning to get over the fear of eating again.”
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

