LOOK, instead of Florence &amp; The Machine, surely Glastonbury should have been looking at someone of the calibre of Sir Elton John to headline their pyramid stage.
He certainly proved himself every inch the rocket man as he delivered a hit-packed set at Glasgow's SSE Hydro.
Philadelphia Freedom and Bennie &amp; The Jets seemed like a statement of intent as, from the get-go, he treated us to classic Elton material, fully in vogue whether rock operatics or his Seventies pop hits.
Few people genuinely deserve the legend tag when it comes to their musical legacy, but nobody could argue that Elton is anything but one of Britain's most prolific music artists of all time.
Even if his sparkly, blue longcoat had a tinge of the Liberaces about it and those specs make him look like he's just stepped off Seventies children's TV show The Banana Splits.
Who wouldn't forgive Elt his showmanship except gnarly old punks and the occasional curmudgeon or cutting-edge hipster or teenager. I could go on.
Thankfully he got Candle In The Wind out of the way early enough.
&quot;We're thrilled to be back in Scotland. It takes me back to playing Green's Playhouse all those years ago,&quot; he told the crowd before mumbling something about that being pretty much all he had to say on the subject.
After All The Young Girls Love Alice it was time for a couple of bluesy tracks from his 1971 album Madman Across The Water kicking off with Levon.
The man born Reg Dwight in Pinner, Middlesex, also managed to deliver effortless West Coast of Americana with Bernie Taupin such as Tiny Dancer from the same album and followed that up with the more melodramatic Believe.
Of course there are probably music writers old enough to remember when Daniel was a hit.
Yours truly found it on Elt's Greatest Hits about 40 years ago, which makes me a spring chicken compared to some and admittedly fewer than ever.
But what is remarkable about, say, Daniel is that it is a song that stands apart, another example of the Golden Age of British pop music and the golden age of Elton's pop career.
But Goodbye Yellow Brick Road - now there's a song. Forty-two-years old and counting, and no wonder the audience came alive.
 

An intricate intro to Rocket Man, as long as most songs, gave Elton a chance to flex his piano skills before he waddled to the front of the stage to shake hands with the front row, which one would imagine could be risky for a man who makes his living with his fingers.
And what is there to say about Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word?
It's such an elderly classic you half expect a Soviet defecting major in a greatcoat to step out of the wings.
Ahab seemed perfunctory but it's churlish to pick holes when the gist of it is that this is a pop superstar in the flesh delivering up for the most part an impressive back catalogue of hits punctuated only by the occasional self indulgence.
Because Sir Elt's catalogue is so impressive that one knows that for every filler there are three or four hits about to roll like thunder in its wake, hence Ahab was followed by I Guess That's Why They Call It The Blues.
And I guess that's why Elton, at 68, remains in a league of his own.
But then he tells you a story.
&quot;I wrote hundreds and hundreds of songs with Bernie and I can remember a couple of them distinctly,&quot; Elton says. &quot;48 years together and we've never written in the same room. Maybe that's why we're still together.
It was 1969 and I got this song and the lyrics were so good that I thought I'd better not mess this up. Writing this as an 18 year old was quite something.&quot;
And when he plays and sings Your Song, you realise you are in the presence of greatness.
Because for all the cynicism that is fashionable today and probably has been for as long as Elton has been making music and being lauded as the great aunt of British pop and for almost as long as I have adopted it as a modus operandi, that my friends is a song, and it's fitting it's the one that earned him a standing ovation.
But, of course, all good things must come to an end and Elton hinted his retirement may be around the corner.
The bombshell was almost an aside as he told fans he wanted to spend more time with kids Elijah and Zachary.
He told the audience: &quot;This is not going to go on forever because I want to see my boys grow up.&quot;
Then launched into Don't Let The Sun Go Down On Me.
