THE families of the Clutha tragedy victims have accused crash investigators of withholding the truth about why their loved ones died.
A final conclusive report on why a police helicopter crashed through the roof of the Clutha bar in Glasgow, killing 10 people, is due for publication within weeks.
But the victims’ families have yet to see the report by the Hampshire-based Air Accidents Investigation Branch – despite the police receiving it months ago.
A draft of the final report has been circulated to “interested parties” which, according to government guidelines, is “any person or organisation which they consider may be adversely affected by the report”.
Police Scotland received a draft of the final report in March. The copter’s operators Bond Air Services have also been studying the report.
Louise O’Prey, whose brother Mark was killed in the tragedy, said: “It’s a year-and-a-half ago now and we’ve still got no answers.
“I’ve lost faith, to be honest. We keep hearing that there’s going to be news and there will be some closure for the families, then nothing happens.
“The way the whole communication was handled at the start was dreadful. We’re no further forward.”
Andrew Henderson, a partner with Thompsons Solicitors, who represent some of the families of those who lost their lives or were injured in the crash, said: “It’s very surprising and upsetting for the victims of this tragedy that they are not going to be given the AAIB report in advance of publication.
“The AAIB say this is only for interested parties. I think those terribly injured or bereaved have more interest than anyone else.
“It’s time the AAIB and their bosses at the UK Department of Transport had a rethink and made this report available to the victims and their lawyers, not just because they are more affected than anyone else but also out of simple courtesy and respect for what these families have suffered.”
A spokesman for Digby Brown solicitors, who also represent families of those injured and killed, said: “It is disappointing those most affected by this incident will not have access to such an important document. Victims and their families should be at the centre of the investigation.”
Ten people died after a police helicopter crashed through the roof of the Clutha in Glasgow on November 29, 2013. More than 100 people were in the packed bar when, according to eyewitnesses, the helicopter fell out of the sky like a stone.
David Traill, pilot of the Eurocopter EC 135, was killed along with police constables Tony Collins and Kirsty Nelis.
Mark O’Prey, John McGarrigle, Gary Arthur, Colin Gibson, Robert Jenkins and Samuel McGhee died in the pub.
Joe Cusker was pulled from the wreckage alive but died in hospital two weeks later.
Clutha owner Alan Crossan said: “It is unbelievable the time it is taking for this information to be released. I don’t think they respect what the families are going through. They don’t understand the pain people are suffering.
“Knowing what happened would allow people some sort of closure and allow them to move on to the next stage of the grieving process. But this is dragging on and on.
“Why should agencies who may have been responsible for the accident know what happened and not the families?”
According to an interim report last year, both engines failed on the helicopter because fuel had not been reaching them – even though there were 76kg in its main tank.
Last month, reports claimed the final report will say pilot error was not to blame for the crash. Instead, a faulty fuel gauge may have caused the accident.
Police Scotland said: “We’re aware AAIB announced in November that ‘the final report is expected to be published in the middle of 2015’. We are not aware it has been published.”
A spokesman for Bond Air Services said: “The AAIB have said they expect to publish their final report into the tragic accident at the Clutha Vaults in the middle of 2015. It would be inappropriate to comment on the report before it has been published.”
In February, the Sunday Mail revealed Nicola Sturgeon had attacked the delays and silence surrounding the Clutha inquiry in a withering letter to the Prime Minister.
The First Minister described Scottish law officers’ anger at the “dearth of information flow and a lack of respect” shown by air accident officials towards victims’ families, the police and prosecutors.
An AAIB spokesman said: “This is a draft report and it would be inappropriate to comment until it is final. It has been circulated to ‘interested parties’, as defined by AAIB regulations, and the final report is due in the middle of 2015.”
EU regulations state that before reports are published, the “safety investigation authority in charge shall forward that information to the victims and their relatives or their associations in a way which does not compromise the objectives of the investigation”.
 

'Did my big son lie all weekend in there alive?'
EIGHTEEN months on from the crash, Mona O’Prey, 72, from Cambuslang, near Glasgow, still struggles every day without the crucial information that would tell her exactly how and when her son Mark died.
She’s written a heart-breaking letter begging for the truth. It explains why she fears her son was found alive in the pubimmediately after the tragedy but was not rescued because the building was unsafe.
She writes: “Did he die on the Friday (the day of the tragedy)? – No. Did he die on the Saturday? – I don’t know. On the Sunday? – I don’t know. On the Monday? – I don’t know.”
Her anguished letter ends: “My happy, healthy big son went out for a pint and was killed. My heart is broken. My torture never ends. Can anybody help me?
“Did they leave Mark with a mask on his face? Why did they not bring him out? He was only 3ft from the main door.”
Mona, her husband Ian, 68, and daughters Barbara and Louise feel they’ve been all but forgotten in the months since the tragedy.
They’ve heard nothing since receiving an initial report last year from AAIB saying the helicopter suffered double engine failure.
It did not explain the cause of the failure and the information was in such technical form that the O’Preys gleaned nothing meaningful from it.
They have heard nothing from helicopter operators Bond, they’ve had no communication from the police or procuratorfiscal service since the immediate aftermath and they still don’t know whether there will be an FAI into the crash.
But what hurts Mona more than anything is the absence of clear information on Mark’s time of death. Conflicting accounts from paramedics, police officers and members of the procurator fiscal service have left them confused and upset.
During the frequent nights when she can’t sleep for thinking about her son, she writes down her feelings to try to clear her head.
And her latest letter is heartbreaking evidence of the ordeal of grieving relatives who find themselves caught in limbo.
She writes: “I asked if I could speak to the female rescuer who was the last person to see my son alive. I was told I could not. She was seemingly traumatised. I don’t believe this.
“The police family liaison people, several days later, showed me an official document stating Mark died instantly. I asked to keep this document but was told it had to go back.
“This was all lies as, at a subsequent meeting, I was then informed that my son did not die instantly. No one seems to know when he died.
“My nightmare continues. Did he lie all weekend alive?”
Mark, 44, a window cleaner from East Kilbride, had gone to the Clutha to watch his favourite ska band Esperanza.
A judo blackbelt who was a member of Mensa, he left a son, Liam, now 16, and a close-knit family now traumatised by his loss.
At their farmhouse home, Mona and Ian approach their grief in different ways – Ian wants to talk about Mark, Mona often finds it too upsetting.
While her daughters are comforted by a sense of his ongoing presence, Mona admits he feels lost to her.
She told the Sunday Mail: “I wrote the letter because I’m just not getting anywhere. I feel I want someone to help us. I need answers. I think about it every day. It’s better than it used to be but it still comes in waves. My fear is I never get the answers.
“Was Mark saying ‘mum’? Was he asking for us? I need to know these things.
“After the George Square bin lorry tragedy, they said really quickly there would be an FAI but they haven’t said that about the Clutha. I can’t understand that.”
Her hope is that someone – anyone – will read her letter and step in to bring clarity to both the cause of the Clutha tragedy and the way the rescue operation was mounted afterwards.
 

'Dear Anybody My only son Mark O’Prey was killed in the Clutha Bar Tragedy.
Did he die on the Friday (the day of the tragedy)? No. Did he die on the Saturday? I don’t know. On the Sunday? I don’t know.On the Monday? I don’t know.
Paramedics declared him dead on the Monday. On the Friday the rescue people found Mark alive. A female rescuer placed a mask on his face. At this point, health and safety instructed all people to vacate the building as it was thought that the one-storey building could be unsafe.
Did they leave Mark with a mask on his face? Why did they not bring him out? He was only 3ft (36in) from the main door.
I asked if I could speak to the female rescuer who was the last person to see my son alive. I was told I could not. She was seemingly traumatised. I don’t believe this.
The police family liaison people, several days later, showed me an official document stating Mark died instantly. I asked to keep this document but was told it had to go back.
This was all lies as, at a subsequent meeting, I was then informed that my son did not die instantly. No one seems to know when he died.
My nightmare continues. Did he lie all weekend alive?
My happy, healthy big son went out for a pint and was killed. My heart is broken. My torture never ends.
Can anybody help me?
Yours sincerely,
Mark’s mum, Mona O’Prey'

