DANCE music stars Slam have criticised the treatment of Glasgow’s The Arches by authorities following the loss of 129 jobs.
The arts and music venue has been forced to close after being placed in administration.
It follows a controversial decision by Glasgow Licensing Board to cut the venue’s opening times following police concerns about drug and alcohol incidents.
The nightclub was The Arches’ main source of funds and insiders have criticised Police Scotland for their handling of the situation.
Slam’s Stuart McMillan told The Record: “It’s disgraceful what’s happened with it to be honest.
“It’s very shortsighted given that every city needs a good cultural hub for a start.
“Every city needs a great nightclub.
“Many things put a city on the map, great restaurants, great theatres, great football and also great nightclubs are all part of that.
“It’s part of what makes a city great.
“The Arches was such an institution and the spin-off is that there are so many great producers from Glasgow.
“I can’t help thinking there has been a scapegoat culling of The Arches. It’s very sad indeed.”

Slam used to run club nights at The Arches when they were first starting out in the 1990s and say they are appalled by the treatment of the venue.
It has been revealed police wanted the venue, on its famous club nights, to stop the music every hour, and bring up its house lights.
Slam’s Orde Meikle added: ”To single out one particular nightclub to represent the perceived problems is shortsighted.
“Glasgow punches above its weight with dance music productions and nightclubs like The Arches encouraged that scene with so many young producers coming up through the ranks in Glasgow.
“We are hoping sense will prevail and at some point in the future The Arches will come back.”
Founded in 1991, the Arches employed 133 staff in full and part-time posts.
Derek Forsyth and David Hunter, from accountancy firm Campbell Dallas, said the venue would close immediately and that the jobs losses were unavoidable.
“The Arches was facing unsustainable cash flow problems and despite an immense effort by the board and funding partners it was clear that administration was the only option for the companies,” he said.
“As a result of an uncertain future income profile the venue will immediately close.
“The prospect of job losses has been well documented, and it is with great regret that we have had no option but to make 129 members of staff redundant with immediate effect.”
He added: “We have already contacted various funding partners and stakeholders to consider all options going forward and to see whether elements of the business may be resurrected.
“The Arches is an internationally recognised brand and we would encourage interested parties to make contact as soon as possible.”

