A 5ft pensioner stamped her husband to death in a row apparently sparked by a pack of cigarettes.
Sandra and Norman Bruce had tried to give up smoking - but she claimed when he failed to quit he wanted her to join him in lighting up.
Bruce told a jury at the High Court in Glasgow that she could not remember launching a brutal attack on her husband.
But the trial heard that - after the killing - she complained about her husband hiding a packet of cigarettes under her pillow that night.
Bruce, 61, was jailed for life today after being convicted of the murder of her retired paramedic hubby Norman, 64.
She kicked, stamped and jumped on her victim at their home on the Isle of Skye in February last year.
Mr Bruce never recovered having suffered a host of injuries including 20 rib fractures.
Today his wife, who was said to have smirked when later shown photos of his dead body was jailed for a minimum of 15 years.
Judge Lord Armstrong told her: “There are no reasons which could possibly justify the taking of another’s life.”
Bruce, latterly of Kilbarchan, Renfrewshire, showed no emotion as she was taken in handcuffs to the cells.
More Glasgow news
 

The murder happened at the couple’s home on the Breakish area of Skye.
They had moved there in the 1990s after Mr Bruce left his then wife.
Prosecutors stated Mr Bruce was scratched before being kicked, stamped and jumped on.
It was said his raging wife also inflicted “blunt force injuries” to his head and body.
Ambulance technician Andrew Alexander told the trial how he attended at the house on February 9 last year.
He said Bruce appeared “agitated” and “slightly unsteady on her feet”.
Mr Alexander then added: “She stated that Norman was dead and that there was no need for the defibrillator.
“She took hold of me - she did not let go for a period of time.”
Mr Alexander and a colleague found Mr Bruce’s body in the house, but it was clear he had already died.
Mr Alexander recalled Bruce being on the phone after the killing.
He told the jury: “She stated ‘the b****** put a packet of cigarettes under my pillow’ or ‘the b****** hid a packet of cigarettes under my pillow’.”
The court heard Mr Bruce - who was a foot taller than his wife - suffered multiple facial injuries, 20 rib fractures and extensive bruising.
 

When later quizzed by police, Bruce was said have been “smirking” when shown images of her husband’s corpse.
Bruce gave evidence during the trial and insisted she had tried “thousands of times” to remember what happened that evening.
She also claimed to have been the victim of domestic violence.
Bruce was quizzed about her making the cigarette comment, but again said she could not recall it.
However, she told the jury both her and her husband had previously tried giving up smoking.
Bruce went on: “He had failed and wanted me to start smoking again.”
The former secretary later told the jury that she did not accept murdering her husband and that she “never meant to harm him”.
But, prosecutor Andrew Brown QC instead suggested Bruce “could not face the reality” of what happened.
She replied: “I don’t know.”
Bruce had also faced allegations of assaulting her husband’s son Andrew Bruce when he was a young boy in the 1990s.
Now a 37-year-olds police officer with the Civic Nuclear Constabulary, he recalled her trying to choke him when he came to Skye to visit his dad.
The accusation was later dropped by prosecutors during the trial.

