A SCOTS family lost out on a Cyprus holiday after their terrified son refused to go to a resort at the centre of a child-snatching alert.
Eight-year-old Karandeep Bhart was in tears as he watched a TV report on the attempts to lure youngsters into cars close to Protaras on the island.
He had been due to travel with his dad Onker, 43, mum Jaswant, 38, and 12-year-old brother Sarandeep to a hotel less than half a mile from the spot where witnesses told of seeing the abduction attempt on three children.
The family, from Glasgow, faced losing the &pound;2700 they paid for the trip until Thomas Cook agreed they could change the location of their holiday.
Wine shop owner Onker said: “My boy was watching Good Morning Britain and started crying when he saw a report about it.
“He knew we were going to that place and was saying, ‘I don’t want to go on holiday’.
“As a parent there is no way I could have made him get on a plane to go there.
“I wouldn’t have sent either of them to the kids club knowing someone else was looking after my children, not after hearing this.
“Even if there was a one per cent chance of something happening to my children, I’m not going to take that chance. I’d rather lose the money.”
Dozens of British and Irish holidaymakers have been moved out of the Anastasia Beach Complex since the incident was reported.
The alleged child-snatchers are said to have been trying to lure three children, all under 10, into cars.
 

Tour operator Thomas Cook agreed to relocate dozens of concerned customers to other hotels or to fly them home.
British holidaymakers in the resort yesterday slammed the hotel management’s claims they had increased security.
The boss of the Anastasia complex said he had doubled the security team – from one to two.
Yiannos Michaelides said that lifeguards were now acting as lookouts and another member of staff had been drafted in to patrol the four-storey complex.
But parents at the hotel said they were too scared to let youngsters out of their sight.
Only a small wall separates the resort from the busy road where the attempted abduction is said to have taken place.
A group of Brits claimed this week that a group of fake waiters were part of a child kidnap gang targeting the hotel.
A member of a wedding party from Dundee claimed a gang dressed as waiters tried to snatch children from the resort on Tuesday.
Greg Letford, 28, said: “This Romanian couple were leading the two young children towards a waiting car, another person had a third child up against a wall ready to go, too.
“Someone spotted what they were up to and stopped them.”
But Cypriot police said there had been a misunderstanding by holidaymakers.
They arrested a 19-year-old Bulgarian, but said there was nothing to suggest that he was part of a child-abducting gang.
Onker, a long-standing Thomas Cook customer, is still trying to find an alternative destination to take his family at the start of August.

