THE French Riviera swims tantalisingly into view as Dirty Rotten Scoundrels arrives in a city built on the Clyde.
The musical, based on the 1988 film of the same title starring Michael Caine and Steve Martin, heads to Glasgow on a tour direct from London’s West End, where it ran to critical acclaim and was nominated for an Olivier Award.
It’s a welcome return to the less tropical climate north of the border for Mark Benton, who stars as crooked police chief Andre in the production.
The actor, 49, starred in the BBC drama Waterloo Road as maths teacher Daniel ‘Chalky’ Chalk and followed the show from Rochdale to Greenock.
He said: “I had a great time on the show, especially in Scotland. I’m half Scottish, my mam is from Saltcoats and I spent all my summer holidays there, so I know Scotland well. It was brilliant. You could finish a day’s work then head off up to the lochs.”
The show has more relevance than holidays and simple geography to his role in Scoundrels.
When he left Waterloo Road, he decided to start taking riskier choices which have included appearing as Edna Turnblad in the musical Hairspray and appearing in Strictly Come Dancing.
Mark said: “I did want to do something different and that’s when Hairspray came along. I thought, ‘I’ll do that’. Then Strictly was out of the blue and I thought, ‘I’ll do that too’. I still think sometimes, ‘Why did I say yes?’
“I always said I wouldn’t do reality TV but I don’t regret it because I had a wonderful time.
“I think there comes a time in your life when you think, ‘What the hell’. When you do something like Waterloo Road, a long-running show, you get very used to it and you learn the script quickly and get into the routine of it all.
“I like a bit of challenge, a job that I think, ‘I’m not sure I can do this’.
“That makes it exciting and sometimes you might fail dismally but at least you tried.
 “I got offered a few musicals after Hairspray but it’s a hard one to top. Nothing came along that I thought I really want to do until this because  of the combination of the story, the songs and the humour. I’ve not regretted it because it is a lovely cast and it’s one of those shows that you look forward to because everyone leaves with a smile on their face.” 
Dirty Rotten Scoundrels is the story of sophisticated conman Lawrence Jameson, played by Michael Praed, whose elegant and charming lifestyle is rocked by the arrival of brash fellow conman Freddy Benson (Noel Sullivan).
 The Riviera isn’t big enough for the both of them and the two conmen take each other on as they compete to swindle Christine, played by Carley Stenson, whom they believe is a millionaire heiress, to see who stays and who goes. In the original film, the role of Andre is on the periphery of  the action but he is one of the quartet of major characters in the musical. 
 Mark said: “It’s a kind of story within a story really. Andre starts off as Lawrence’s henchman in a sense. Lawrence, brilliantly played by Michael, is the suave, sophisticated one and basically Andre gets involved with one of the women Lawrence  has discarded and falls in love with her. And it becomes a love story for him in the second half. 
“That’s what is so great about the show. You get to laugh, you get to sing, you get to dance but there’s also a bit of pathos in there and it is a really sweet story in the second half.
“We’re having a great time, better than I expected to be honest.
“I knew it was funny but it has had a really great reaction from the audience. It’s a great company and a brilliant show. It reminds me of the glitz and glamour of the old MGM musicals, the big Singin’ in the Rain dance numbers and stuff like that, but it has a real modern sense of humour, which I love.”
Mark saw the 1988 film at the time but resisted the temptation to revisit it.
He said: “I didn’t watch it in preparation for this. It is slightly different. My character, for instance, doesn’t feature in the film as much as in the musical because obviously you have to flesh it out. But the humour is the same – daft, funny, irreverent, classic I would call it.
 “The thing with this musical is I like to think of it as a comedy with songs. It is such a good story and everybody likes a con, a twist and  a turn. You are following the story and the songs come out with the story so there’s a reason for every song. It’s brilliantly written and hopefully it flows really well. There are no complaints so far.” 
 Dirty Rotten Scoundrels is on at the King's Theatre, Glasgow from June 23-27

