 The public are up in arms at the Scottish Government’s plan to sell off the Calmac service to private firm Serco. 
 Caledonian MacBrayne have provided vital trade, tourism and commercial links to more than 20 islands on the western seaboard for decades. 
 The RMT union fear privatisation will spell poorer services for ferry users and worse terms and conditions for their members. 
 And the Daily Record have taken up the cudgels to force the SNP to abandon the &pound;1 billion sale. 
 Here former Scottish Labour leader Johann Lamont, whose family has strong links with Calmac, explains why the battle is about more than a ferry service. 
 

NEWS about the threat to CalMac got me thinking. This is not the dust of political scrapping. It is in the very fabric of my life.
My uncle was skipper on the old Claymore sailing out from Oban to the Inner Hebrides. My father worked for MacBraynes all his life, on freight boats and then on ferries crossing to Skye, Barra, Uist, the small isles and Iona.
As a youngster, I travelled every year across the sea to Tiree. On occasion, we ventured to Skye on the Kyleakin-Kyle of Lochalsh ferry, where there is now a bridge.
As a young teacher at Rothesay Academy, I travelled regularly from Wemyss Bay and occasionally on the joyous Colintraive to Rhubodach routes on to Bute.
For many years now, I have crossed the Minch to Lewis to visit family.
 

In my mind, the CalMac ferry is linked with the joy of arrival, the sadness of departure, the loss of loved ones brought home by ferry to rest in island soil. It is friendships made and a working life begun.
It also represents risk and danger. My father was out on the high seas during horrific storms of January 1969. Later, he said in his understated way that it had been a bit tough but had been wonderful to reach safe haven.
My father often spoke of what he saw as the lack of value placed on those who risked their lives to deliver people and goods.
READ MORE: Keep Calmac and Carry On: We're selling out on CalMac when we don't need to, says economic expert and union
And we must now in this debate recognise that those risks still exist and those who take those risks to serve should not have their rights traded away. But this is not a story for sentimental Gaelic melancholy about other times.
Through the years, CalMac have provided reliable and skilled jobs to islanders like my father, to communities that are economically fragile.
 

They have provided reliable ferry times, allowing opportunities to travel to work, to open up tourist options, to sustain businesses by being accessible, allowing materials in and goods out to meet market demand.
They have brought the mail, the bread and the news. They have returned the newborn and carried the sick to hospital.
 With the emergence of the internet, it has become possible for creative and bold people with focus and  determination to establish businesses in some of our remotest communities. But these will not work if they do not have reliable transport routes responding to the impatient modern customer. 
READ MORE: Keep Calmac and carry on: Daily Record launches campaign to keep vital services in public hands
These employment opportunities are not just for the sea dogs – they open up options far beyond the dreams of past generations.
These ferries, publicly owned, have provided and sustained services that the markets would have dismissed.
Theirs are not just transport modes to carry tourists to witness past times and a far-off life. They are central to supporting those who want our island communities to thrive and to be modern, open and active.
 

They make it more likely that my nephews’ generation can choose to stay on their island rather than the evacuation of past generations of people like my parents. My class in school in Glasgow was chockablock with pupils whose families were from Skye, Islay, Lewis, Harris and many more – a migrant testimony to what happens where there are no jobs.
And at our own hand, campaigning against the privatisation of CalMac, we can swap a sentimental hug for all things Hebridean for real action to maintain the lifeline services that will help, rather than hinder, the risk of depopulation.
READ MORE: Record View: Scottish Government plan to privatise Calmac ferries will sink communities
And to the Scottish Government, I say this – you are not commentators on this process. You are in control and in power.
Do not settle for an administrative option which stacks the odds against a CalMac bid towards a company whose record is poor and to whom the interests of the workforce are to be disregarded.
Act now to stop the privatisation of our island ferries. Make real your island agenda. Don’t tell us why you cannot act.
Instead, do what good governments always do. Test the arguments. Take on those who say there is no alternative.
 

 And listen to those who understand best what the implications of the current process are. If those  who care most about our islands are crying foul and sounding the alarm on what this might mean, have the courage to step back, rather than to dig in. 
In our stultifying party political knockabout, it is tempting to turn away from those who are raising opposition to your plans.
But this is not about parties. Don’t shoot the messenger.
Listen to the message. Change your mind.
I know my father would have lifted a dram to you if you showed that wisdom.
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

