WOODENBOX singer Ali Downer has revealed how a pre-referendum encounter between opposing factions prompted him to write a love-hate song about Scotland.
The track Scotland, which closes the band’s brilliant new album Foreign Organ, came to the songwriter after attending a pro-Yes rally at Glasgow’s George Square in the week before the September 18 poll last year .
He said: “Me and my wife had taken a walk down to George Square. She was pregnant with our little daughter, and there was this real sense of optimism.
  
“It felt like a community, people finally engaged, talking about politics and feeling hopeful, aware that they had power. George Square felt really special that night, almost timeless. ”
The mood changed when they encountered No supporters, sporting football colours and shouting at  passers-by who’d come from the pro-independence gathering.
Ali said: “We were walking up Duke Street and they drove past us, swearing and shouting at us, as they headed off to a big party at The Louden Tavern.
“It was such a weird night. I’d done the piano part in the Mitchell Library the week before and then we wrote some lyrics to the song that night.
“The song is basically a bit of a battle between the good and the bad of living in Scotland. Sometimes you love it, sometimes it kicks you in the ass. And after the referendum that’s how it felt.
“But it was a positive time for the band. We’d never really talked about politics before but it felt like a really positive time for us all.”
The band – who include Fraser McKirdy and Jordan Croan – have ditched their old name Woodenbox With a Fist Full of Fivers in favour of a more streamlined approach, which reflects the more direct sound of their music.
The catchy single More Girl Than Friend has picked up airplay on Radio Scotland but Ali laughed off suggestions that it was a personal tale.
He said: “I just wanted to write a  sort of Lee Hazlewood and Nancy Sinatra fake love affair thing. It was almost a jokey story.”
■ The band will play Isle of Bute Festival on July 18-19, Electric Circus Edinburgh on August 8 and Jocktoberfest at the Black Isle on September 5. They’ll also play Glasgow’s Kelvingrove Bandstand with We Were Promised Jetpacks, Fatherson and Young Aviators on August 9.

