AS one of Scotland’s famous Lager Lovelies, she was one of the country’s most recognisable faces.
But model Karen Thomson has been caught growing almost &pound;12,500 worth of cannabis in her basement flat.
She was rumbled when officers received an anonymous call that her flat was being broken into and her plants had been spotted.
The 52-year-old, who is now a landscape gardener, kept a cannabis factory in a bedroom in her flat in Dowanhill, Glasgow, to supply the drug to friends. The business grew and soon Thomson was dealing.
Details of Thomson’s drugs business emerged at Glasgow Sheriff Court last week.
She pled guilty to supplying cannabis between October 2012 and May 2013.
Her sons Joshua, 19, and Jefferson, 22, pled not guilty to the charge, which was accepted.
 

All three denied producing the drug, which was also accepted by prosecutors.
Thomson refused to comment but a source close to the case said: “She’s made a huge error of judgment and she knows that now.
“What started as something among friends spiralled out of control.
“She is facing the consequences and isn’t making any excuses.”
As one of the legendary Tennent’s can girls from 1988 till 1991, Thomson graced billboards across the country.
She continued to have a successful modelling career after the feature – in which often scantily-clad girls were featured on lager cans – was axed.
Her business was discovered on May 22, 2013, when police were sent to the flat after an anonymous phone call claiming there was a break-in.
 Another anonymous phone call claimed that cannabis plants could be seen from the window that had  been left open. 
Police found 52 plants, scales, thermometers and plastic bags with a cannabis motif on them.
Thomson wasn’t in at the time of the search and later agreed to go to the police station on a voluntary basis where she was interviewed.
Her lawyer Gordon Williams said she lived at the flat with her two sons.
He said: “She had a skill due to her background in horticulture.
 

“She started off as attempting to assist friends and it became more successful than she ever hoped.”
Sheriff Daniel Scullion called for background reports and continued her bail.
He told her: “Custody is one of the disposals that could be under consideration.”
Williams said that in a report by a drugs expert, it said that the plants were “not consistent with personal use”.
But he added that the report said Thomson’s farm was “too small to be a full-scale commercial operation”.

