 SHE’S juggling a return to radio in Scotland and a TV talent show with promoting her new book on her specialist subject – music festivals. 
So it’s a good job Edith Bowman can rely on daddy day care from her rock star husband. 
While the 41-year-old is fronting The Quay Sessions, a weekly music show on BBC Radio Scotland, Editors frontman Tom Smith, 34, is back home in London looking after their sons Rudy, six, and Spike, two.
The couple got married in December 2013 and making their two careers work alongside being parents requires a lot of planning.
 Fife-born Edith admits a bit of professional help is necessary at times – but for the most part they manage to coordinate their schedules to be there for their children. 
She said: “I have a good diary system, a great nanny and a brilliant husband, who totally steps up to his responsibilities when he needs to.
 “He’s about to start a new album but he’s been home for a while, which was really good while all this has been going on. 
“I take on more work when he’s home – and I know from the end of August he’ll be away a lot, so I’ll take my foot off the pedal a bit. It’s important for one of us to be there.”
Working in Scotland allows Edith to get home to Anstruther and spend time with her parents as well as bring the music of her home country to the airwaves.
 

She said: “The great thing about the summer is that we come up most holidays to see the family, so when Rudy gets summer holidays off school we’ll come up for a few weeks and I can just drive through to do the show.
“It was a no-brainer to come home. It was just a case of making sure I could commit to it.
“We are overlooking the Clyde and two of the amazing venues Glasgow has for the best live music.
“The idea of doing a show that is two hours of live music means it’s not rushed. Artists can play a good handful of songs.
 “We’ve got a great line-up to promote and can celebrate Scottish music and the diversity of it – not  just what is coming out of Scotland but what Scotland has influenced. 
“It’s a gig – we’ve got our own set-up in the foyer of BBC Scotland that is staying there. You see two or three great live performances and it’s free.
“With an audience, it gives it a real feel of being a proper event, which we are filming too.”
Edith has made sure she has a hands-on role rather than being given a prepared script to read out on the night.
She said: “I made playlists of each of the bands so I know what each set is like and what they are playing.
“I’m not just rocking up and doing a few links. It’s my words I’m saying, not what I’m told to say.
“You’ve got to believe in the music. We didn’t do pilots or loads of rehearsals. We wanted to let the show evolve.
“Some weeks we have two bands and other weeks three or four. The producer, Mandi Freeman, and I are constantly emailing back and forth.”
 

 The series so far has featured artists such as Texas and KT Tunstall – but Edith has her sights set on even bigger names. 
She added: “I bumped into Kylie at the airport and told her she should come up, too.”
Edith also revealed she has a little routine she goes through before each show.
She said: “I get nervous, but it’s not going out live so there is less pressure.
“I play music in my dressing room while I go over my questions and make sure I have something to eat so I don’t faint. I approach it like a live radio show – you won’t see me tottering about in heels and glad rags. I love that about radio.
“I’m not going to turn up in my pyjamas – I did that for early radio shows – but I’ll be comfortably dressed.”
Although Edith has also become a recognised authority on film through her Screen 6 series, her career is currently more focused on the musical side.
 She was at the Isle of Wight Festival last weekend for Sky Arts and is fronting Guitar Star for the channel. 
The presenter also found time to pen Great British Music Festivals, which guides readers through the best outdoor live music in the UK.
 Becoming a first-time author felt like a real accomplishment for the festival veteran, who admits it was an emotional experience to finish the book. 
 

Edith said: “It was a bit like holding a child for the first time. I’ve always said I wanted to do a book and will write a fiction book at some point.
“I have massive respect for people who write. It’s an amazing thing to get your head round and learn.”
Edith wrote while she and the family were in Scotland to visit Tom when he was recording with his band, who have had two No1 albums.
She said: “Tom was recording the album in Argyll. They found this random house in the middle of nowhere and you could see Jura.
“We came up a bit before Christmas and decamped here. While he was working, I found my twilight hours for writing from 9pm until 1am.
“I got the kids down and create a world in my office by playing old footage and watching old festivals.”
Edith says writing the book has given her a new perspective on her work. She said: “I’ve not looked at the sales of the book as it’s similar to an album when you are an artist.
“Musicians get to play their finished album live and I get to talk about my book. I’ve appeared at a few festivals to talk about writing it and mum was proud of me when I went on This Morning.”
● The Quay Sessions, BBC Radio Scotland, Thursdays, 9pm
