DROPPING IN from a ramp more than five times your height is breathtaking enough for most skateboarders.
But when you’re only six it’s simply mindblowing.
Add in heart-stopping moves including kick-turns, full cabbies and melon grabs, and you’ve got one of the most exciting extreme sports athletes of any age, never mind a pupil from primary one.
Meet little Max Cameron – the kid with the perfect poise who has amazed instructors and fellow skaters by smashing it at one of &shy;Scotland’s most popular skateboard parks.
This time last year, Max was still at nursery.
But now, when many kids his age have just got the hang of riding a bike, the fearless skater kid is mixing with the big boys at Unit 23 in Dumbarton, where he regularly drops in off a 20ft ramp.
His dad Ross hopes the 3ft thrillseeker can follow in the tracks of heroes Ryan Scheckler and Scotland’s Andy White.
Ross said: “Max has only been skating for eight months but already everyone at Unit 23 knows who he is.
“The other skaters, boarders and BMXers always ask me his age as he is so small, yet doing amazing things and they can’t believe when they hear he is only in primary one.
 

“Unfortunately he is too young at present for competitions, which are few and far between in the UK. But he is desperate to compete and is constantly asking if he can go to the USA.
“He’s skateboarding daft. Even when he’s not riding he insists on watching it on TV and his favourite skaters are Tony Hawk, Ryan Scheckler and Andy White.
“Max says he wants to be the youngest person ever to jump a mega ramp, which has a drop in height of around 60-70ft, is around 200-350ft long and has a gap of around 50ft in the middle, which has to be jumped. I’ve got to be honest, I skateboard every now and then and the thought of that scares me.
“But I wouldn’t put it past Max.”
Max, from Bishopton, Renfrewshire, picked up a skateboard for the first time last summer after showing a natural ability for surfing on a family holiday in Barbados.
Scotland’s lack of surfing &shy;opportunities meant his dad decided to look for a sport which involved the same balance and skill closer to home.
Ross said: “When we were on holiday in Barbados I got Max into surfing as it was something I had always been keen on.
“I was astonished when he managed to get up and stand after just five attempts, which is pretty unheard of for someone so young.
“When we got back from holiday I wanted to keep his enthusiasm for surfing and given that Scotland’s not great for surfing, I needed to find something with the same balance.
 

“He was too young for snowboarding lessons so I got out my old skateboard and that was it. We found Unit 23 in Dumbarton and signed him up – the rest is history.”
It’s not just his proud dad who’s been blown away by Max’s ability - the owner of Unit 23 reckons he’s never seen anything like it in someone so young.
Chick Mailey said: “Max is an &shy;amazingly talented lad. At only six he is a fearless wee skateboarder and manages to smash out something new every time he visits Unit 23.
“He’s already jumping the resi ramp among other things much to the delight of our coaches.”
But Ross admits if his son is going to make it big in the skating world then he’s going to have to look to America.
“In the next few years we want Max to experience riding in other skateparks to build more experience,” he said.
“Hopefully he can get to America to start training on mini mega-ramps which will hopefully lead to his own aim of jumping a mega ramp.
“Essentially we just want him to enjoy riding and developing his skills and maybe get the chance to ride with more and more skateboarders like Andy White from Glasgow.”

