They are the foodies who also know a little about where to go for a welcoming drink.
 Scotland’s top chefs have been busy nominating their favourite bar as we continue our annual search  to find the Sunday Mail Pub of the Year for 2015. 
From a back-street bar in the capital to an eclectic and long-established Glasgow hideaway, the award-winning cooks have told us what they love about their favourite pub. Now in its 20th year, our gong at the glittering Scottish Bar and Pub Awards, staged by Dram magazine, raises a glass to the  country’s top bar.
Nominate your favourite bar  for Sunday Mail Pub of the Year at  www.scottishbarandpubawards.com
 Paul Kitching chooses The Bon Viviant, Edinburgh 
Michelin award-winning chef Paul says The Bon Vivant bar and restaurant feels like Scotland’s coolest pub.
He loves everything about its ambience, from the retro style of its decor to its mood lighting.
He often finds an excuse to pop in for a quick serving of their Scottish tapas or a glass of champagne. Paul, 52, who runs 21212 with partner Katie O’Brien, said: “I love everything about The Bon Vivant. It is one of the funkiest pubs.
“Everywhere you sit feels comfy and homely in a good way. It is wonderfully dark inside.
“The decor is amazing – very 1960s in a cool way. It just feels so right for now.”
Paul is a big fan of the wide selection of beers and champagne on offer – and the food.
He added: “They do fantastic Scottish tapas.
“The staff too are all super-smart kids and nothing is too much trouble for them.
“You can’t help but fall in love with it.”
  Andrew Beattie chooses Stravaigin, Glasgow  
Respected chef Andrew  Beattie used to live right beside his favourite bar.
He loves the eclectic style of the bar and restaurant and says it’s the perfect place to pop in for either a beautiful meal or a quick drink.
 Andrew, 42, head chef at Cook School Scotland in  Kilmarnock , said: “The  Stravaigin offers a wee bit of everything and can be all things to all people. 
“I used to live pretty much above it and did a lot of my courting with my wife there.
“Now we go back there with our family. It has quite an eclectic feel to it – everything is a bit mis-matched and a lot of the wonderful stuff, I’m sure, must have come from a salvage yard.
“You are always made to  feel welcome and you can see the staff take pride in working there.
“It’s the sort of place you can get dressed up and go there to have a nice meal or just stand at the bar and have a pint.”
 Mark Greenway chooses The Oxford Bar, Edinburgh 
Mark is famed for the cool elegance of both his signature restaurant and award-winning food.
But when it comes to his favourite pub, he loves the dress-down tradition of the back-street bar in the heart of the New Town.
Mark, 38, whose restaurant was last year voted one of the top 100 in the UK, said: “I love The Oxford Bar – partly because it’s just a three-minute walk from my restaurant, so handy for a quick drink after work, and partly because of the heritage of the place.
“I’m at an age now where I feel too old to be heading to the trendy pubs in George Street. I want a proper pub where it doesn’t feel like you are in a club and there is no dance music.
“I want somewhere I can go to catch up with friends and hear yourselves talking – and The Oxford Bar is the ideal place for all of that.
“Big chain pubs have their place but it is good to support your local pub and they need you to go or they can’t stay open.”
Mark’s favourite pub is famed for being the bar of choice of crime writer Ian Rankin and his fictional cop, Rebus. And Mark agrees with Ian that it is the ideal spot to head for a drink in Edinburgh.
He said: “I don’t want to go somewhere that you have the most fashionable barman in the world, with his trousers just about down to his ankles, trying to shake me something which means it takes five minutes for him to make me a drink.
“The Oxford Bar is good traditional pub – and that’s what I like.
“I never eat there but I like popping in for a drink.”
 Brian Maule chooses Moskito, Glasgow 
  

Award-winning chef Brian always feels relaxed as soon as he walks through the door of his favourite pub.
The Chardon d’Or chef patron said: “A good pub has to have good service, you have to be made to feel welcome, have nice decor and the right atmosphere – and Moskito has it all.
“I always feel relaxed there, even if I’m on my own and go in after work to have a couple of pints.
“Sometimes I go with friends as the music is always good and there is a great atmosphere.
“Other times I might go in with my family and perhaps have a bite to eat.”
Brian, 46, says the bar food is traditional but expertly cooked.
He added: “The food is very simple – things like hamburgers or macaroni cheese – but it is very tasty.
“And the staff serving it are all very friendly.
“There are a few different areas you can go to – the snug or you can sit in a booth or you can just stand at the bar.
“Wherever you are, it’s just a nice place to chill out.”
 Annette Sprague chooses Cafe Royal Edinburgh 
Annette loves the history and romance she associates with her favourite pub.
The famous bar – which was founded in 1826 and has been in the same spot since 1863 – was the first pub her husband took her to when she arrived in Scotland from her native America.
Annette, 46, who owns the Redwood Bistro in Corstorphine, Edinburgh, said: “The Cafe Royal is such a beautiful bar. It is so traditional, with such an amazing history you can see all around you.
“This was the first pub my  husband Nicholas brought me to when I first visited Edinburgh in 1998 and I have loved it ever since.
“It’s a great place to meet friends or family and, although I’m not a huge beer drinker, I do like wine and it has a nice selection of wines by the glass.
“I love how open the bar feels inside and how light and airy it is thanks to its big beautiful windows. I like the plush booth seats and tables.
“And you always get a friendly  welcome from  the staff.”
