A TWO-YEAR-OLD battling cancer is to become the first patient to receive a bone marrow transplant at Glasgow’s new Royal Hospital for Sick Children.
Kai Laidlaw was diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia when he was just eight months old. The transplant, to be carried out later this month, is his only chance of beating the illness.
The toddler was scheduled to go to London’s Great Ormond Street hospital for an experimental bone marrow transplant, the first of its type, at the end of July but now doctors fear little Kai would not survive the wait.
 So, instead, he will be the first person to receive a bone marrow transplant at the children’s hospital, adjoining the new South Glasgow University  Hospital. 
Mum Pamela Neilson, 38, of Edinburgh, said: “The doctors told us maybe we should give up treatment for Kai – his chances are so slim and he’s been through so much.
“But he’s so bright and alert, I can’t just give up on him.
“We’ve nearly lost him a couple of times but he fights back every time. Kai is still strong and fighting so we need to keep going for him and us. His chances of survival are only one in 10 but that is better than nothing and Kai is amazing.
“It’s going to be hard and there will be a lot of complications going through the transplant but it’s nothing compared to losing him without trying.
“Kai has had to fight every single day of his life. Surely he deserves a chance.
“We’re so grateful to be getting the bone marrow transplant at the new hospital in Glasgow.”
Apart from the aggressive form of blood cancer, Kai has battled numerous other diseases and infections which have crept in behind his weakened immune system. His body has hosted 13 ports and tubes for his treatments.
Kai had his left eye removed after it was overrun with cancerous cells – the first person to undergo the procedure. It was replaced with a prosthetic eye attached to the nerves so it moves just like a real one.
He was just a few months away from stopping treatment when, tragically, he relapsed in March.
Pamela said: “I just knew he had relapsed. He was looking good and running about. There was nothing medically wrong – he didn’t have a temperature and hadn’t been sick. But I knew, as his mum, he wasn’t right.”
Doctors told Pamela and her partner Calvin that 50 per cent of Kai’s bone marrow was riddled with cancer.
Pamela said: “They told us his outlook wasn’t good and to do as much with Kai now as we can and enjoy our time.
“They said our options were limited but one of the options was a bone marrow transplant.”
Doctors decided to give Kai a transplant in Glasgow after his counts dropped dramatically following a tiny dose of chemo. His bone marrow is now so sensitive to chemo that it needs to be replaced as soon as possible to save his life.
He will be admitted to the hospital on Wednesday to start the life-saving treatment.
Pamela said: “Kai’s in a precarious position and it was too risky to wait until July to go to Great Ormond Street for treatment. He’s already started the pre-transplant treatment.
“Kai’s transplant will involve the introduction of healthy marrow of a matching donor in the hope that healthy blood cell production can start again.
“It’s a balancing act. His counts have to be high for him to cope with chemo and he needs the chemo to keep the cancer cells at bay before the transplant.
“If he gets too much chemo, though, he could end up in intensive care as his body just won’t cope.”
Kai’s family have been overwhelmed by the public support to help save Kai’s life since the Sunday Mail told his story last year.
Pamela added: “When they told us Kai’s only chance was a transplant, we were inundated with private messages from people offering to be donors. It was amazing and incredibly emotional.
“When they first searched the register, they found 300 matches for Kai as he has a common bone marrow. Friends, family and strangers have been an incredible support to us – we’ve been completely overwhelmed.”
Oblivious to the emotional rollercoaster his parents have been experiencing, Kai has been happier than ever.
Pamela said: “He’s brighter than he’s been in a long time, smiling and joking with everybody.
“He loves playing with his toy dinosaurs and building things. He does understand a lot – he’s wise beyond his years.”
For Pamela, it’s a constant battle between accepting life in hospital as normality and anger at what her brave little boy has missed out on.
She said: “How did life turn out like this for my two-year-old boy? I wish life was full of playing games, feeding the birds and going to the park.
“Instead, he endures pain and anguish yet still smiles, laughs and loves. He shows his true strength but it breaks our hearts that he has to go through this.”
The family plan to stay in Glasgow while Kai has his transplant and after-care but the move from Edinburgh comes with a complication – finding somewhere to stay that can accommodate Kai’s dad, Calvin, who has multiple sclerosis.
The 48-year-old needs a wheelchair to get about, has a carer for assistance and requires specialised equipment to be brought with him. The family also need a wet room for Calvin to wash in – something that no hotel in the area has to offer.
Pamela said: “The Ronald McDonald home at Yorkhill shut down early and they’re running behind with the new one. The families that were staying there are at hotels. Plus Calvin has his equipment to take and his carer needs a room too.
“We have tried other charities and even letting agents. We’re not asking for this for free – we’re expecting it to cost. All we can do is keep emailing and hoping.”
Pamela added: “Calvin can’t walk and has to be hoisted into everything so we will need to be near the hospital.
“I don’t know how long we will be in Glasgow for but children can be in for up to six months with after-care.
“The one thing I need to ensure is we’re a family and we need to be together. We could be in hospital for six months but Kai is amazing so fingers crossed.”
Kai’s family have campaigned and raised funds for charities, including CLIC Sargent and family support organisation CCLASP, during his treatment.
He has received more than &pound;10,000 of donations from relatives, friends and strangers online towards his family’s upcoming living expenses in Glasgow.
Calvin said “Whatever happens, Kai has the best mum in the world. If it wasn’t for her, he wouldn’t be here. It’s harddealing with my MS and Kai’s cancer. I try to do what I can but she does everything for him.”
www.gogetfunding.com/kai-s-krusade/

