FORCING Scottish women to leave the country for abortions they are legally allowed should be unthinkable.
But that’s the little-known situation facing too many Scots looking for terminations over 18-20 weeks.
 The law says the procedure can go ahead across mainland Britain up to 24 weeks into pregnancy. Few people realise the reality is a little more difficult . 
For complex reasons, a convention has developed where Scottish patients are regularly sent south at that late stage.
It’s clearly an unacceptable quirk which only adds more anxiety to an already traumatic experience.
Going through an abortion is a difficult, emotional test for anyone.
It’s made worse when pregnant women are forced to choose between the hardship of travelling far from home, or keeping the baby.
Political leaders ran a mile when abortion law came up for discussion during the Smith Commission on further devolved powers.
It’s taken a new report to highlight the hidden issue among women in Scotland.
The real reasons for the disparity between Scotland and England are not clear.
For that reason alone, it is a worthy subject for renewed debate among MSPs.
 

A WEEK after the murder of a man in the heart of Glasgow, the crime remains unsolved.
Victim Albert McDonald’s gangland connections may indicate a sinister motive.
But whatever lies behind his murder, those responsible need to be off our streets.
 That’s why last night’s police appeal for key witnesses to come forward is perplexing – because despite using CCTV to identify people who may have crucial clues, the police refused to publish their pictures . 
The force insist they exhaust all lines of inquiry before seeking leave from prosecutors to release camera footage.
Yet common sense – and our experience – says the sooner photographs are issued to the media, the sooner people come forward.
Individuals tend to recognise themselves, or are recognised by others.
Officers can then swiftly gain key evidence or move on to other avenues of investigation.
 It’s time police and prosecutors changed their approach to CCTV – and together we might crack crime a sight quicker. 
 

 IF Partick Thistle were looking for a reaction to the unveiling of new mascot Kingsley, they certainly got one . 
Designed by superfan and Turner prize-nominated artist David Shrigley, the yellow, spiky-headed sun monstrosity sparked a hilarious online backlash.
The Jags will be hoping their terrifying post-modern take on the traditional child-friendly mascot will bring them cheers on the pitch. But there may be tears off it.

 Try our quick news quiz below: 

