YOU might have your summer wardrobe worked out but do you have hair styles to go with it?
It is so easy to fall into the trap of never changing the look of our locks. But your hair can change with the season just as easily as your clothes.
We asked stylist Summer Telford from Rainbow Room International in Great Western Road, Glasgow, to guide us through the season’s top styles and the products to achieve them.
She said: “This spring and summer is all about ditching the hair extensions and tongs and embracing natural texture combined with stylish braids.
“Our must have products for this season are texturising products.”
So whether you are going to a wedding, rocking out at a festival or looking forward to a week in the sun, there are three styles that will see you through the next few months in style.
Summer also recommends the tools that will help you achieve all three looks.
 Summer says: 
“PONYTAILS are a classic hairstyle that are quick and easy to achieve. They’re stylish and on trend and look great on second day hair that’s been previously curled or has a loose wave through it.
“I backcombed the hair gently at the roots to create volume, if you struggled with back combing at home you can use a volume booster instead. I then combed the hair back into a slick ponytail and secured the hair to one side using a hair tie.
 

“A section of the hair was wrapped around the base of the ponytail to conceal the bobble to give a glamorous feel to a classic style. The braids were added in to give a boho effect, perfect for festivals and easy to achieve, I created these braids using the simple three strand technique.”
 Summer says: 
“THIS next style is perfect for wearing to a summer wedding.
“It looks more complicated than it actually is, the key is to sit with your head forward and braid from the nape of the neck working your way up to the crown, I’ve done the same from the sides of the head working my way up so that the four braids meet at the crown.
“The ends of the braids are secured using kirby grips and then with the ends the options are limitless – I’ve backcombed the hair to add volume, height and texture as this season is all about undone, relaxed texture and then pinned random sections of hair in place to create a messy updo.”
 Summer says: 
“BRAIDS are great way to keep your hair off your face and, let’s face it, when it’s hot and sunny the last thing you want is your hair hanging around your face.
“Everyone can do some form of braid whether that’s your basic three-strand braid, an on trend fishtail braid or a boho-inspired cornrow.
“Braids are set to replace your curling wands and straighteners for a low-key, on-trend, effortless look. Braids are great as they’re versatile.
 

“A tight French braid takes some practice but it looks super cool and is a great style to wear if you’re lounging by the pool or the sea or even to take you from beach to the bar.
“For our model we opted for a tight French braid across the head in diagonal section starting from one side and working across. I then secured the braid at the back of the head and coiled it and teased sections of hair to replicate a floral inspired effect.
“A variety of toners were used throughout to create an on-trend pastel effect.
“If you are not brave enough to commit to a temporary hair colour then hair chalks provide a wash in, wash out solution.”
 To add some colour try Crazy Color at www.crazycolor.co.uk/shop/products/ 
