Hard work pays off for Streets Ahead winnersBEST CLEAN UP CAMPAIGNWINNER: WEST GLASGOW GREEN GYMIt’s amazing what a difference a few extra pairs of hands can make.The volunteers at West Glasgow Green Gym have turned dark, unfriendly spots into pleasant places for a stroll. They have picked up dirty and dangerous litter, cleared cycle paths, cut back unsightly weeds and tidied school gardens.And at the same time, they are changing their own lives for the better.“Keeping active boosts physical and mental health and that’s what our Green Gym does for our volunteers,” smiles Wendy Cameron.“It’s an opportunity to get some fresh air, do some gentle exercise at your own pace and meet a friendly group of like-minded people. It’s so therapeutic seeing a messy, overgrown patch being transformed into somewhere you look forward to walking through.”She laughs: “And it’s all free.”Around eight volunteers take part each week, covering a variety of locations including Drumchapel, Yoker, Scotstoun, Kelvinbridge, Temple and Knightswood. If they didn’t turn up, the west of Glasgow would be a much untidier place.“You’d be amazed by the moutain of rubbish we have collected,” says Wendy. “It’s very satisfying when residents come up to us and thank us for the difference we make to their area, and that happens most weeks. Hopefully it also encourages them to think about how they could be a part of improving their area.”She adds: “We are extremely proud to have won this award – our volunteers, who work so hard for us all year, really deserve it.”RUNNERS-UP: KINGSWAY COURT CLEAN UP GROUP/ACTION HILLHEADThe hard-working volunteers and GHA staff who make up the Kingsway Court Clean Up Group are helping local people take pride in their community.They transformed a grassy area blighted by litter and dog dirt into a beautiful green space for residents to enjoy.Volunteer John Doyle said: “We have done a number of clean ups in the area and they have been so beneficial. The place looks fantastic.“It’s great to be recognised by the Evening Times Streets Ahead campaign after all the hard work we put in.”Action Hillhead, the inspirational team of students, residents, businesses and schools who run regular clean-ups, are leading the way with other Glasgow communities now keen to follow their example.“We have been approached by an organisation in Partick who want to follow our model,” says organiser Luke Evens. “Our motivation for taking part was pride in our local area and a desire to bring a diverse community together in one shared cause – the street.”BEST GARDENDrumchapel great-grandmother Dora MacDonald was astonished to win the Best Garden category.“I just like working in my garden,” she laughs. “I didn’t realise so many people thought it was lovely.”Dora won best garden in the GHA’s Drumchapel competition recently too, with judges paying tribute to her hard work.“I have always loved gardening and when I moved here, the garden was a mess,” she says.“So I just started working on it. On a beautiful summer’s evening, when I’m sitting on the veranda looking out over the flowers starting to bloom, it’s just the perfect place to be.”Dora’s proud daughter Cindy and other family members, including some of her 12 great-grandchildren, cheered and applauded as she made her way to the stage to collect her award.“My mum just lives for the summer,” smiles Cindy. “She works so hard and her garden is beautiful.”RUNNERS-UP: BERNADETTE BROWN/GORDON KENDALLBernadette Brown, of Anniesland, who was another GHA winner in the local garden competition, has worked hard to create a beautiful garden .She said: “I am very humbled that I was even considered. It has been such an interesting experience meeting everyone involved in the Streets Ahead Awards.”Former winner Gordon Kendall was delighted to be a finalist again.“It’s exciting but it’s really surprising,” he smiled. “It’s nice to be back. I’m really proud of the garden, it brightens the place up and gets everybody else involved.”