Commercial Feature 4 Blooming great tips for a tea party success from Marie CurieGood friends, good cake &amp; oodles of tea go so well together, wouldn’t you agree? But how can you get the most out of your tea party? Marie Curie has pulled together their top tips for tea party success!You can also sign up for free to host&nbsp;a Blooming Great Tea Party, making your love of tea &amp; cake go even further by raising money to help Marie Curie Nurses care for more people living with a terminal illness across the UK.Top Tips!1.Choose a date &amp; location : The great thing about a tea party is it can be whatever you want it to be! Whether that be a garden party, a communi-tea get together in the village hall or your very own blooming great bake off at work! Set a date that suits you &amp; your guests!What about a theme for your party? We’ve had various through the years from Mad Hatter Tea Parties to Boutique extravaganzas! Some are even having a literature theme, using books as placemats &amp; selling old books to raise more from their tea party.2. Get your invitations in early: We have created some e-invites to get you inspired! Take a peak here&nbsp;&nbsp;or you can download our paper invites &amp; pop them in the post!&nbsp;3. Throw your party!&nbsp;Looking for some baking inspiration? A whole host of celebs have shared their fantastic recipes &nbsp;to get you inspired! Plus watch the video for a lovely recipe with Mel Giedroyc &amp; Suzy Pelta!The Blooming Great Tea Party pack also has a whole range of items to make your party a huge success! From bunting to recipes, quizzes and cake labels! You’ll have everything you need to make it a success!4. Early Bird Competition!&nbsp;Once you’ve thrown a Blooming Great tea party, if you bank your money before the 7 July you will be in with a chance of winning &pound;100 of John Lewis vouchers…perhaps to spend on more baking goodies!Hear from a past tea party host Ruth Smyth : Ruth Smyth threw a tea party at her home last summer. Ruth says, “I planned everything using the pack that Marie Curie sent to me. I used the invites to let people know about the party and put up the flyers at my local church. I spent the couple weeks beforehand baking and getting everything ready.“We had tea, coffee, lots of pretty cakes, cupcakes, scones, jam – you name it we had it! It was about four hours of people dropping in and out. Guests brought cakes and a Pavlova. They were all very generous with their donations. I loved just being in the middle of it all, talking to people about Marie Curie, as well as having fun and a laugh with everyone who came. In the end I raised around &pound;250.” Ruth decided to throw a tea party to give something back after Marie Curie Nurses cared for her mother in her final ten days.Ruth says, “the Marie Curie Nurses were amazing. There were a few different night time nurses, but the same nurse came during the day. She knew exactly what she was doing with Mum’s care and had a great attitude. She even managed to get my dad to go to bed! He never wanted to leave my mum’s side. It also meant I got some time for myself too.“In the end, I was on my own with mum when she died. I was tidying her room when she passed away.”So if you would like to have a blooming great time this summer while raising money for a blooming great cause, then visit Marie Curie’s website and sign up to throw a tea party today!