ALMOST two weeks after collapsing at a party linked to drugs arrests, 16-year-old coma girl Amy Thomson has squeezed  her mother’s hand.
Amy remains comatose but doctors have changed her condition from “critical” to “serious but stable”.
And mum Tricia has told friends on Facebook: “I know she’s going  to live and that’s all that matters.”
College student Amy, of Pollok in Glasgow, was rushed to hospital and put on life support after falling ill at the party at Knightswood in the city on June 10.
Police and NHS officials joined forces to warn of the threat posed by powerful crystallised ecstasy capsules believed to be widely available in Scotland.
Three other girls, aged 15, 17 and 18, were taken to hospital after the party but allowed home soon after.
A man aged 33 and two women aged 17 and 18 were arrested for alleged drug offences.
Tricia has been with Amy at South Glasgow University Hospital since her collapse.
And on Monday, she wrote on Facebook: “At 8.30 this morning Amy squeezed my hand.
“I was sleeping and thought I was dreaming. I wasn’t.
“They reckon we will be here  for a long time. She’s still on the ventilator but they have reduced  the support.
“I don’t know how things are going to work out but I know she’s going to live and that’s all that matters.
“So it will be the beginning of another journey – the recovery.  My friends, I hope you’ll join us for this one too.”
 

Family member Caroline Thomson, who shared Tricia’s message, said of Amy: “She literally is a miracle. Last week we thought she was gone.
“A long way to go, but every improvement is welcomed.”
Another relative, May Warren, added: “Although she still has a  long way to go, what a difference from a few weeks ago. Please keep praying – this is proof it’s working.” May had previously echoed police warnings about the ecstasy capsules. She said: “As a family we are in so much pain watching one of our own fighting for survival.
“I was young myself and I know what it’s like trying to keep in  with the crowd. But please, precious wee people, don’t take any of  these poisons.”
Police say there have been  several reports in recent weeks of young people suffering “significant adverse effects” from ecstasy capsules.
Detective Inspector Michael Miller, Police Scotland’s national drugs co-ordinator, said the incidents  highlighted the dangers of taking ecstasy capsules or pills.

