PRINCE Charles toasted the rebirth of the Clutha with a dram yesterday.
The future king made a return visit to the pub where a police helicopter crashed through the roof in 2013, killing 10 people.
And with the restored Clutha not quite ready for reopening, Charles and wife Camilla enjoyed a drink with owner Alan Crossan in the Victoria Bar next door.
Charles visited the Clutha days after the disaster to talk to survivors and emergency workers, and Alan was thrilled to welcome him back to Glasgow.
He said of the royal couple: “It was really touching that they put the effort in to come and see it.”
The Clutha visit was part of a busy day of Scottish engagements for Charles.
And the programme ended in hilarious fashion when Camilla’s Jack Russell Bluebell chose exactly the wrong moment to decide she needed a wee. Charles was holding the pup when nature called.
Bluebell made her boo-boo as Charles and Camilla visited a dog show at Dumfries House in Ayrshire.
 

The prince also toured the fire-ravaged Glasgow School of Art, where he’s a patron, visited the Golden Jubilee Hospital in Clydebank and spoke to apprentices at car dealers Arnold Clark.
But it was his return to the Clutha that made the headlines.
Alan greeted the prince and Camilla as they arrived.
And Charles paused to admire his hero Spike Milligan, one of the stars who visited the famous music pub and now feature in a huge mural on its wall.
Charles saw the restoration work inside and visited the pub’s garden, where he spoke to Glaswegians from the Clutha Trust, the Prince’s Trust, the Gorbals Barn Project youth centre and Royston Youth Action.
He also signed a ukelele which will be auctioned to raise funds for the Clutha Trust.
Alan said Charles’s first concern was for the victims’ families and survivors of the crash.
He added: “He was asking how the families were and how everybody was coping. He was obviously very concerned.”
 

Alan said Charles also spoke about the controversial delayed Air Accidents Investigation Branch Report into the tragedy.
First Minister Nicola Sturgeon wrote to Prime Minister David Cameron in February to raise concerns about the speed of the investigation.
And victims’ families are angry that they have been denied access to a draft report which has been shown to “interested parties”.
Alan said the prince was “concerned that things should happen quicker”.
He went on: “The main concern was how everybody was coping and how we look forward.”
Alan complained that victims and their families had been “left at the bottom of the pile” by the authorities, and said Cameron had “sat on his hands” and refused to help them.
He said the AAIB report “won’t give us all the answers”, but would help people “get a wee bit forward with what’s happening in their lives”.
Earlier, Charles toured the restoration work at the Art School with director Tom Inns and board member Muriel Gray.
 

Tom said: “He’d seen pictures of the damage but he was genuinely shocked to see it up close.
“He was explaining how the Royal Family dealt with the Windsor Castle fire in 1992, so I think he really understands how complex it is to deal with something like this.”
At the Golden Jubilee Hospital, Charles opened an innovation centre and spoke to patients, doctors and nurses.
He also met male and female apprentices at Arnold Clark, who work with the Princes Trust to encourage youngsters into engineering.
Camilla visited a credit union fair at the Trades Hall of Glasgow and met pupils from Govan High School.
And she and Charles ended their day at Dumfries House near Cumnock. The prince helped save the estate from closure in 2007.
 

Try our quick news quiz below:

 
