THE classic comedy Whisky Galore! is being remade – and locals in a Banffshire village are getting ready to welcome an &shy;invasion by film-makers &shy; and tourists alike.
The much-loved 1949 original told the true story of the US-bound SS Politician, which foundered on rocks off Eriskay in 1941 while carrying 28,000 cases of whisky.
The film version, which told the tale of how the renamed SS Cabinet Minister ran aground off the fictional island of Todday was shot on Barra.
Much of the new version will be filmed in Portsoy, which is along the Moray Firth coast from Pennan, where Bill Forsyth shot many of the scenes for 1983 cult hit Local Hero.
A tight-knit community of just 2000, the people of Portsoy were yesterday raising a glass to the production, which is due to begin as early as next month.
Roger Goodyear, chairman of Portsoy’s Scottish &shy;Traditional Boat Festival, is delighted.
He said: “We were approached a fair while ago and told about the project.
“We understand that quite a significant bit of the film will be done at Portsoy around the old harbour. It’s terrific. The immediate impact on the &shy;community is going to be &shy;significant.”
Roger, 70, who was made an MBE earlier this month, is a fan of the old film.
He said: “I love Whisky Galore, and there’s an element of pride that Portsoy should be at the centre of the remake.
“Both for Portsoy and the &shy;Banffshire coast it’s very good news. There will be roles for extras but I don’t know yet how many.
“I was told a lot of the best-known names in Scotland will be in it. We’ve had a lot of meetings with the film-makers about tides and so on. I’ve offered my house at a very reasonable fee.”
 

The original Ealing comedy, which included future star of The &shy;Professionals Gordon Jackson as George &shy;Campbell, tells the story of islanders desperate for a dram after supplies run scarce during the war.
The caper tells how they hide, and consume, hundreds of bottles of whisky under the noses of Captain Waggett, the commander charged with &shy;recovering the liquor for Customs and Excise.
It has remained popular ever since, even inspiring a Tennent’s Lager advert homage in 1993.
It’s rumoured bumbling Waggett will this time be played by &shy;comedian Eddie Izzard.
Braveheart actor James Cosmo is also lined up for a leading role as a whisky-loving islander.
Despite Portsoy’s proximity to the sea it’s understood boat scenes will be shot at Loch Lomond and in a water tank in Glasgow.
At the Beggars Belief Coffee Cove on Portsoy’s Shorehead, Lee Wenman, who runs it with her partner Dave Crighton, said: “It’s going to be fabulous.
“The film crew and producers come and have their lunch and coffee here when they come up from Glasgow for meetings.
“They’re still are the very initial stages and planning the doing their schedules and so on but it’s lovely.
“They are going to be using the front of our shop and our archway as an entrance to the pub scenes.”
South African Lee, 52, isn’t surprised Portsoy has been chosen as a key location after she moved there five years ago.
She said: “I feel in love with it and of course I met Dave, who has the shop. It’s part of a house that was finished in 1726. There are still quite a few of the original features.”
The producers of the new film said that a major announcement about the cast and crew will be made in the next few weeks.
They have indicated that it will be quite different from the &shy;original adaptation, and will perhaps be closer to the spirit, if not the letter, of the original novel.
Producer Iain Maclean, who was born on Lewis, tried to film a remake more than a decade ago but the project was put on hold.
Asked recently why he wanted to film a new version, he said more evidence about the story of the SS &shy;Politician had come to light.
He added: “The fact is, it seems folly to have made the film in monochrome when the unmatchable colours of land and sea in the area were available.
“The perennial story of a united community putting itself against officialdom and authority has resonances the world over.”

