A Vale theatre star who has performed for musical king Andrew Lloyd Webber is proud to be performing in a hit West End production this week.
Lisa Mathieson is dance captain in the UK tour of Dirty Rotten Scoundrels, which starts its Scottish premiere at the King’s Theatre in Glasgow on Tuesday (June 23) and runs until Saturday, June 27.
The 29-year-old is charged with overseeing the show’s choreography, teaching new cast members and ensuring each performance has the energy, excitement and accuracy of an opening night. She is also a swing, which means she can take over cast roles at a moment’s notice.
Lisa, who was in the original West End production of the show, grew up in Alexandria, learned her first dancing steps at June Fox Dance Academy and attended Our Lady and St Patrick’s High School and Glasgow Academy of Musical Theatre and Arts before leaving at the age of 17 to chase her West End dream in London.
She said: “I am so excited to be helping bring Dirty Rotten Scoundrels to Glasgow and I’ve told the cast it’s going to be the best of the tour. There’s always a huge amount of energy in Glasgow. I’m pretty much selling out the show on my own with all the people I know who are coming!
“My gran is over 90 and hasn’t seen me on stage in years. The last time she saw me was in panto in Kilmarnock. I know she will love it. The show is visually and musically brilliant and the script is very funny. The songs are catchy, the costumes are beautiful and we get to play so many good characters.”
Based on the classic comedy film starring Sir Michael Caine and Steve Martin, Dirty Rotten Scoundrels transports the audience to the French Riviera as two seasoned swindlers attempt to hoodwink a millionaire heiress.
Lisa performs alongside Michael Praed (Robin of Sherwood, Dynasty), Noel Sullivan (Hear’say), Carley Stenson (Hollyoaks) and Mark Benton (Waterloo Road).
She has built an impressive CV and has had the chance to travel the world, including for Santa Clause – The Musical in Singapore, We Will Rock You in Cologne and a US tour of Dancing Queen.
She said: “My big break was Andrew Lloyd Webber’s Love Never Dies. To get the job you have to sing for Andrew Lloyd Webber. That was scary. You go through five auditions and when you come to the last one, he comes in as he always has the final say.”
Lisa added: “I always really enjoyed singing and dancing when I was younger but didn’t know if I was good enough. It wasn’t until I got slightly older that I thought maybe I can do this.”
She described her current role as her “favourite ever job”, adding: “I got to work with director Jerry Mitchell, who is fantastic, when it was at the West End, so I know exactly what he wants and how he wants it to look on tour. There’s only a few of us from the West End show and it is cool to see a new cast.
“We did our first understudy run recently and it’s nice seeing members of the ensemble step up to be the lead. That’s a really important part of my job. The people in the background are just as talented and they might not be the lead because they are slightly out the age bracket or don’t have a particular look.
“Seeing them at the forefront getting the applause and appreciation they deserve is my favourite part of the job.”
