 COUNCIL leaders yesterday threw their weight behind the Record’s campaign to stop Caledonian MacBrayne ferry services being privatised. 
Senior officials from across the Clyde Valley piled pressure on the Scottish Government to prevent the &pound;1billion sell-off.
 Inverclyde Council leader Stephen McCabe said: “There are routes which are absolutely vital to people’s lives, but which do not make money. These are the  services we fear would be cut under privatisation. 
“There would be thousands of jobs dependent on trade and transport links between Clyde Valley and our islands.
“The Government should think again – but we have to maintain pressure on them to do so.
“We are supporting the Daily Record campaign in the hope that the Government will change their mind.”
 

The Record launched the Keep CalMac and Carry On campaign to keep the lifeline west coast services in public hands.
And the eight council figures who make up the Clyde Valley Cabinet agreed there was no place for privatisation on the ferries.
McCabe’s ward relies heavily on the CalMac service for travel and employment.
And the firm’s HQ is on his patch at Gourock pierhead. He fears around 50 jobs could be lost directly if CalMac lose the contract, with tens of thousands of others at risk across the whole of Scotland.
McCabe added: “We have two key routes, Wemyss Bay to Rothesay and Gourock to Dunoon. People rely on them for transport and trade with Scotland and beyond.
“Any diminution in this service will have an adverse impact on numerous communities.
“We are also concerned about the jobs. CalMac provide good-quality jobs for local people. If they were transferred to the private sector, would they continue to receive the same conditions and job security? It’s unlikely.
 

“Tens of thousands of jobs are indirectly linked to the ferry services, including those in the tourism sector.
“These services are so important that they should remain in public control.”
The Holyrood Government have put the contract for the west coast ferry services out to tender. They claim European rules forced them to do so. CalMac and private firm Serco are the only two bidders.
Northern Isles ferry services have already been sold off to Serco.
Council leaders from East Dunbartonshire, East Renfrewshire, Glasgow, Inverclyde, North Lanarkshire, Renfrewshire, South Lanarkshire and West Dunbartonshire have written a joint letter to Scottish Transport Minister Derek Mackay.
It says: “The lesson learned from the privatisation of the service to the Northern Isles was that it resulted in cuts to services and staff.
 “Carrying out a similar process for lifeline services to the Hebrides threatens the economies and way of life of the rural and island communities, but also the  companies in the Clyde Valley with whom they do business.&quot; 
 

Glasgow Council leader Gordon Matheson said: “This is a brilliant campaign led by the Record.
“CalMac provide lifeline services, which will be axed if there is privatisation, with a private company choosing to cherry-pick the most lucrative routes to keep running.”
CalMac workers, who are worried about pay and conditions after the new contract is awarded, have voted for a 24-hour strike on Friday. Yesterday, the ferry operators warned that disruption to services was inevitable.
CalMac are operating a 90 per cent timetable today and tomorrow when RMT members are refusing to work overtime.
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

