PARTICK Thistle’s scary new mascot Kingsley went on a charm offensive to convince the world he really is a ray of sunshine.
The bizarre yellow character attracted thousands of comments and memes on social media sites from around the globe when he was unveiled at Firhill on Monday.
And after many claimed to find Kingsley “terrifying”, the mascot decided to hit the streets with the Daily Record to win over some fans.
At Maryhill’s legendary Partick Thistle pub the Star &amp; Garter, regulars seemed to warm to the new member of the Jags family.
Owner Michael Sanders, 59, said: “If people on the other side of the world didn’t know who Thistle were, they will now.”
 

Pub regular David Davies, 33, said: “Our former manager John Lambie was much scarier.” And Alexander McFarlane, 70, added: “He’s a lot better looking than most of the supporters.”
Another, Robert McMahon, 52, said: “The fans will take to him eventually.”
Kingsley was designed by Turner Prize-nominated artist David Shrigley as part of a new deal with US investment firm Kingsford Capital, thought to be worth &pound;200,000. And he even proved to be a hit with skateboarders at Glasgow’s Kelvingrove Park.
Jah Ruler, 25, a carpenter from Shetland, said: “He looks like a sun, but a sun that’s been out all night at a party.”
Richard Maxwell, 23, a barman from Motherwell, added: “He looks like the kind of guy you could have a good time with.”
Kingsley also caught up with Taylor Swift fans at the Hydro Arena in Finnieston.

Hayley Milne, 26, a marketing manager from Bearsden in Glasgow, said: “My boyfriend is a huge Partick Thistle fan.
“We were both following all the chat on Twitter yesterday about Kingsley, so this is a real treat to actually meet him in person.”
Kingsley also made friends with students Nicole Brabender, 19, from Stirling, and Gabrielle Knotts, 19, from County Durham.

Nicole, wearing a huge prom queen wedding dress to the concert, said: “He is cool, I’ll be his friend if nobody else likes him.”
The positive vibes will have been a relief for Kingsley after the initial ribbing and scathing reviews.
Stuart Drummond, who used to be Hartlepool mascot H’Angus the Monkey, had claimed Kingsley would bring shame on the good name of mascots.
And a meme appeared which depicted Kingsley featuring in Fifty Shades of Grey.

