TAYLOR SWIFT jetted in from Amsterdam to Glasgow aboard her own multi-million pound personalised private jet for the first date of her UK leg of the 1989 world tour.
The beautiful Dassault-Breguet Mystere Falcon 900 has twelve seats for Taylor and her friends and cost a mean $40 million to buy in 2011 when Taylor earned more than $45 million.
The number 13 is displayed on the nose of the jet now painted in silver rather than original white.
Thirteen is Taylor's favourite number, and before every show, she draws it on her hand. She once explained: “I was born on the 13th. I turned 13 on Friday the 13th. My first album went gold in 13 weeks. My first number one song had a 13-second intro.
 

&quot;Every time I’ve won an award I’ve been seated in either the 13th seat, the 13th row, the 13th section or row M, which is the 13th letter.”
The plane's registration number is N898TS with TS standing for Taylor Swift.
The jet arrived early this afternoon at 2.15pm and Taylor and her crew sped in two black limos and chauffeur-driven space wagons straight to the SSE Hydro venue to rehearse the new song line up for her big night.
Taylor's ten tour buses arrived on Monday and were parked outside the venue.
 

Her tour dancers and band also arrived a day before her big date tonight, staying in a city centre hotel. They were keen to explore the local sites and sounds of Glasgow.
As well as tasting haggis they visited the Kelvingrove art galleries and jogged by the Clydeside before visiting the west end of the city.
Calvin Harris who earlier this week referred to Taylor as 'my girl' was thought to have been keen to watch Taylor's first night performance here but he was pushed for time after playing in Vegas this week and has another date there tomorrow.
 

The two have been seeing one another after meeting in February at the Brits and we were the first to tell you about Taylor's new leading man.
Taylor made headlines earlier this week when she reversed Apple Music's decision to give away artists music for free.
Calvin also revealed he has been looking after her cats while she has been on tour and even put up a slow motion video of them online.
Taylor is expected to make a quick getaway and fly straight onto her next date after her gig tonight.
Try our quick showbiz quiz below:

