HEART operations at Glasgow’s new children’s hospital have been suspended - following the death of three infants.
Health bosses have launched an investigation after three babies with complex congenital heart conditions died at Yorkhill Hospital earlier this year.
Kids suffering from one of the most complex conditions - hypoplastic left heart syndrome, a birth defect that affects normal blood flow through the heart - are now being ferried down to London’s Evelina Children’s Hospital for treatment as a ‘precaution’ whilst the probe is carried out.
Earlier this month, the former Royal Hospital for Sick Children at Yorkhill was closed down, with services transferred to the new state-of-the-art South Glasgow University.
In May, a children's heart specialist warned that increased scrutiny was unfair and putting pressure on surgeons 
Other procedures will continue at the new unit, and NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde have said the service will return to Glasgow once the reviews have been completed.
 

Health Secretary Shona Robison said: “In light of these recent cases, it is right that an internal investigation and an external review is taking place.”
A spokeswoman for NHSGGC said: “We closely monitor cardiac surgery outcomes and one of the key elements of this is survival rates.
“Any deaths which occur are fully reviewed and in line with our ongoing processes of continual scrutiny and ongoing quality improvement we have invited external colleagues from another UK specialist unit to review our clinical practice.
“The Paediatric Cardiac Surgical Service has a nationally set predicted level for survival rates and the unit continues to remain within these.”

Hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS) affects a number of structures on the left side of the heart that do not fully develop, preventing the heart from pumping oxygen-rich blood to the body properly.
Causes are unknown, and patients can face having to undergo surgery or even a heart transplant.
If you have been affected by this issue, please call the Daily Record news desk on 0141 309 3251.
