LAZY, set in our ways, wallowing in self-pity – a nation with its head down looking at its shoelaces.
That was sports impresario Barry Hearn’s hard-hitting verdict on Scottish football last year.
Hearn stole the show when he spoke at the inaguaral SFA Convention at Hampden and didn’t miss those running our game.
And the Londoner disappeared back home with a warning: “You better get it right and if you don’t then it doesn’t matter to me because I won’t be back to talk again.”
He couldn’t understand why Scottish football didn’t do more to promote itself, pointing out he has more Twitter followers than the SPFL.
So you wonder what Hearn would have made of the incredible reaction to Partick Thistle's unveiling of their barmy new mascot Kingsley yesterday.
The Harry Wraggs have long been the butt of jokes – such as Billy Connolly’s quip that Englishmen thought they were called “Partick Thistle Nil” – so there was nothing new in being mocked.
But it was the scale of the interest which took it to a whole new level and in doing so underlined the kind of potential Hearn was talking about.
 

Firhill chiefs would gladly be on the receiving end of the kind of humour that has been floating around if it means they are the ones laughing all the way to the bank thanks to the creation of Kingsley.
Let’s not forget that the new club mascot came about in the first place thanks to a new six-figure sponsorship deal with US investment advisers Kingsford Capital Management which has seen Thistle benefit from a fresh source of income.
For too long Scottish football and its clubs has been accused of standing still. When Hearn delivered his message at Hampden last October the feeling of those inside the room was that he was right in what he was saying but we’d heard it a million times before and nothing is ever done about it.
Partick Thistle have at least tried something a little different and look at the reaction. Firhill general manager and former player Ian Maxwell revealed more than three million people had seen Kingsley.
It is too early to say what the spin-off will be in terms of increased revenue but one Jags fan immediately tweeted media officer George Francis to say he’d renewed his season ticket on the back of it. For a club that had sold only 1134, it’s certainly a start.
 

The bottom line is it opens up revenue opportunties – with the possibility a range of merchandise – which wouldn’t have been there had the club not created this monster (listen, Kingsley was called much worse).
Scottish football as a whole has struggled to attract much interest and the SPFL were without a sponsor for two years until Ladbrokes thankfully agreed to come on board for the start of the new season.
It isn’t easy and when Glasgow’s Greaves Sports shop announce they are selling more Barcelona replica kits than the Old Firm combined, something they admit would have been unheard of in the past, then you realise the challenges even our biggest clubs face.
But that doesn’t mean the potential isn’t there. While she puts her shirt sponsorship of Raith Rovers down to emotional ties, best-selling crime writer Val McDermid recently revealed sales of her books had been boosted in China and she put it down to a Scottish football highlights package in the Far East.
And Partick Thistle have certainly shown what can be achieved by thinking out of the box. They knew what they were doing wasn’t working and instead of continuing to do the same things, they have tried something different.
 

It reminded me of an interview many years ago with bookmaker Barry Dennis – a colourful east Londoner like Hearn – who told a great story of when he was just starting out in the betting industry.
As the new kid on the block he couldn’t get one of the prime positions for his stall at the Cheltenham Festival and just knew he had to do something different to compete with the more established bookmakers at the front.
On his second day he arrived at the racecourse with his female assistant naked but covered in body paint in the colours of a jockey. It worked a treat and punters soon flocked to bet with him.
As Hearn said: “If you live in everyone’s shadow then you never come out of that shadow. You’ve got to grow. You’ve got to be positive. You can’t expect people to take you seriously if you don’t take yourself seriously.”
When Thistle defeated Celtic in the 1971 League Cup final the late Arthur Montford famously declared “What a sensation”. And with the help of social media, Kingsley ensured their name went global again.

