TAYLOR Swift confessed her love for Calvin Harris during her first ever Scottish concert.
Hinting heavily at her relationship with the Dumfries-born hitmaker who just earlier this week called her ‘my girl’, Taylor said: “I’ve never been to Scotland before and never seen so many Scottish people but I happen to love Scottish people personally.
“Look at all these Scottish people that have sold out this place.”
She also told us her dad had sent her an email telling her that most of her family were Scottish.
It was the news we all wanted and the perfect twist in a narrative of Taylor Swift’s life that could read like one of her songs.
Teenage girl moves town to get into country music industry, gets snapped up by big label, releases albums, has hits, wins awards, manages to cross from country to pop, sells more albums, wins more awards, meets some boys then finds one lad who fits her perfectly and comes to his country to play the first night of her tour – to resounding success.
With eleven years of experience as a professional artist under her belt the first night of Taylor Swift’s UK tour was a breeze for the singer who jetted in aboard her private plane.

The former country star who moved to Nashville aged just fourteen is now 25 and has matured on all levels.
As a multi Grammy award winner and the youngest woman ever to be included on Forbes most powerful women list she has it all going on and respect was something we all felt as we watched her perform some of her greatest hits.
Calvin may have still been in Vegas but Tayor brought al lthe glitz and glamour with her.
Opening the show in her blue and pink sparkling mini skirt outfit she sang Welcome to New York acknowledging of the crowd. “Good evening this is my very first time In Glasgow.”
Taylor didn’t have to say a thing.
As the crowd showed their appreciation with screams and applause she winked at them and took off her jacket to reveal a sequinned top as she sang New Romantics.
She appeared on stage again in matching black hotpants and jacket for the big production of Blank Space along the runway with her white clad dancers and even managed to use the word Glasgow repeatedly in the beat of song as she menacingly swirled a golf club.

Starting slowly for normally rockier number Knew You Were Trouble gave it a darker more mysterious edge before she sprang into life to strut on stage with her dancers for a mammoth production of the song.
That was just before she declared her love for Caledonia and old films on the intro for Wish I Would.
And then the wow factor was upped for more with a neon spectacle for How You Get the Girl with lit up umbrellas, raindrops and Taylor in a glowing pink dress.
Taylor urged her crowd to get up in their feet and revoke instructions from security For I Know Places a series of doorways filled the stage as Taylor now in a white hot pant ensemble sang at the top of her lungs.
Taylor showed off her many talents by bringing out a guitar for You are In Love.
Almost every song was punctuated by a pep talk about love and the pain that surrounds it and she really took the time to bond with her audience.
Standing atop a crane that extended out to the audience before singing Clean, she told them some home truths in a motivational speech about being strong and being beautiful as well as thanking fans from overseas for coming along.
Then she launched into Love Story playing keys aboard her giant crane.
Video montages from her best pals telling of their friendship and her much adored cats allowed her time to change outfits once more as she put on a sequinned silver dress as she was surrounded by dancers parading in blue outfits for Style.
 

Big hit Bad Blood was given the super stage treatment with an industrial backdrop of metal climbing frames for a kick ass Taylor and her troupe.
The rock chick came out next as Taylor, clad in black leather, played guitar for a version of Never Ever Getting Back Together.
From the sexy to the Enchanted and magical mood for Wildest Dreams where she sat at the piano and wildest Draams with giant paper airplanes, Taylor became everyone’s best friend.
Shake It off with it’s pink ra ra skirt and bra top was the encore to ice the tastiest cake the audience had had in ages Taylor’s Swifts first night in the UK was an epic journey for one of the worlds biggest stars and no one could walk away from the concert saying they didn’t get value for every penny the spent on their ticket.
You can’t put a price on stardom.
 Try our quick Showbiz Quiz below: 

