Lock up your mothers, the AC/DC Rock or Bust tour is hitting Glasgow on Sunday.
St John Ambulance have been cautioned that “bust” may well be a hip.
Lead singer Brian Johnson may share a milliner with Jack and Victor but not since Benny Hill have middle-aged blokes found a more worthy hero.
Of course, AC/DC remain, like the Rolling Stones, a group who can traverse all demographics but at their core are the men who want to be them.
Having matured from sexually frustrated teens in their bedrooms to sexually frustrated men in their bedrooms, AC/DC fans can once more live vicariously through the band.
This is a group locked in the 70s, who refer to an act of love making as, “givin’ the dog a bone”.
The phrase is repeated 27 times, including the title, which ensures the discerning audience will not miss the metaphor.
We can expect no less from a band who brought us the classic Big Balls.
For some blokes, AC/DC represent a fantasy, away from a world where giving the dog a bone involves a trip to the butchers.
For many whose excitement is now a fresh crop of tomatoes, AC/DC are the defibrillation they need.
 

They forgive guitarist Angus Young, morphing from a rebel in a boy’s school uniform to Jimmy Krankie. They tolerate the metamorphosis of Johnson’s voice into that of Marge Simpson’s chain-smoking sisters.
Read Annie Brown's column on the summit on sexual violence in war zones that cost &pound;5.2million
AC/DC remain one of the most successful bands in the world and have influenced young stars such as Miley Cyrus, whose Wrecking Ball video was inspired by Brian riding a demolition ball on stage. They say art is plagiarism or revolution.
Beyond the idolatry, AC/DC are also one of the most sexist bands to grace a stage.
They have never pretended to view women as anything other than disposable, like the large inflatable women that are regular set accoutrements.

Inflatable women, which one reviewer assured us were not “tacky” having been given a modern-day makeover, which I hope involved a pin.
AC/DC’s late lead singer Bon Scott, who died in 1980, once visited two different women in the same maternity ward after they gave birth to his children at the same time.
Apparently, Bon was considered nicer to women than the rest, so be assured these are men who put their misogyny where there mouth is (and we don’t want to know where that’s been).
I don’t want to be too sanctimonious about this, partly because they are now a laughable bunch of pensioners.
It is impossible to take seriously lyrics like: “Driving all night with my machinery”, which makes me think of tractors.
But then we have: “Don’t you struggle, don’t you fight, don’t you worry cause it’s your turn tonight,” and all I can think of is rape.
Then they seem not so harmless. If that doesn’t get women head banging, nothing will.

