 NO police building is safe from potential closure or reorganisation as bosses seek to save up to &pound;18 million a year and keep officers mobile during their work, a Police Scotland director has said. 
Police Scotland is trying to sever the link between officers and &quot;bricks and mortar&quot; - removing the need for officers to return to base.
 Susan Mitchell, director of corporate services at Police Scotland, told the Scottish Police Authority in Glasgow that &quot;every property we have is under consideration&quot;. 
Police Scotland owns 710 assets including 460 operational properties, ranging from 19th-century buildings to new, purpose-built premises, and over three-quarters are over 35 years old.
But the future of new buildings as well as older properties remains uncertain as Police Scotland continues its estates review.
The force has acknowledged there may be &quot;legal and reputational implications&quot; arising from its review, saying any changes &quot;will require close engagement with communities to reassure them of the continuing provision of an enhanced service that continues to be visible and accessible&quot;.
There may also be a &quot;wider social impact&quot; resulting from the movement of police personnel from a specific area, the estates review said.
The estates team held workshops throughout Scotland to ask operational and non-operational staff what office facilities they need for effective policing.
Ms Mitchell told the SPA: &quot;What was really interesting was the fundamental premise that a lot of policing is about a leadership role in the community.
&quot;You don't need bricks and mortar to play a leadership role.
&quot;It was a really early point that people made that really came across quite strongly, and it was probably one of the defining moments in developing this strategy in terms of changing our thinking about what is policing really about and what extent it needs to be connected to bricks and mortar.
&quot;The other aspect is the future thinking we have got around the mobility strategy.
&quot;Actually, what we want to do to enable officers to be mobile as much as they can - literally - in terms of how they are able to work.
&quot;In that sense, we're not limiting our thinking by requiring people to come back to a given location to fulfil certain parts of the role or particular tasks.
&quot;We're trying to think far more out of the box than perhaps we have done previously.
&quot;We have no desire whatsoever to be limited in our thinking, and for that reason every property we have is under consideration.
&quot;We're not limiting it to a particular type of property or a particular age of property.
&quot;We want to look at the whole thing in the round and not be limited or constrained at all.&quot;
 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

