Glasgow illustrator scoops top book prizeA GLASGOW illustrator has picked up one of Scotland’s top book awards.Ross Collins won the 2015 Scottish Children’s Book Award for his picture book Robot Rumpus, about a little girl whose parents leave her in the ‘safe’ hands of a bunch of techno pals.“This is a lovely award to win because it’s voted for by the kids themselves,” says Ross, who lives in the west end.“That means a lot. You don’t really know how popular your book will be until you get that feedback.”He adds: “That’s why I love going out to schools and festivals and meeting readers. And it’s sometimes surprising what works and what doesn’t.“I mean, I can sit there working away, thinking I have a gag that will make them fall about laughing, and then you read it out and there is complete silence.“And the bits I think aren’t that funny, have them rolling about.”He grins: “But then, if I knew exactly what made kids amused and excited, I’d be a millionaire...”Ross is one of Scotland’s best loved illustrators and authors, having published more than 100 books in 20 countries. His latest creations – a picture book for younger children called There’s a Bear in My Chair and the paperback The Unlikely Adventures of Mabel Jones, are out now, and he is already working on the sequels.“I’m in the middle of a sequel-fest at the moment,” he grins. “As well as follow-ups to those two, I’m doing the third Mabel Jones book and the next in the Knitbone Pepper series, about a ghost dog and his pals.”The Unlikely Adventures of Mabel Jones is by first-time author Will Mabbit.“I loved it right away,” nods Ross. “It’s dark and funny in a Roald Dahl-kind of way, with a shadowy, possibly furry narrator who breaks into the story every now and then and I love that style of writing.“It was also great to do so many illustrations for a paperback aimed at this age group – there are something like 90 in total, which is fantastic. It feels like much more of a collaboration than when you are asked to do just a few.”Ross’s eventful year also included a stage version of his book about a ghost elephant, Elephantom, at the prestigious National Theatre in London. Fans are now hoping it might tour north of the border.“That would be lovely, but I have no idea whether it will happen or not,” he says, apologetically. “Lots of people are asking me – and it was funny, we did an audience Q&amp;A at the National and these little Scottish voices popped up, asking the same question. It was like I had planted them.”Ross works from home, a task made simultaneously harder and more joyous by the arrival of his new baby boy Ridley.“Actually, he’s not a bad sleeper, so we are getting some rest,” he smiles. “I wouldn’t miss being at home with him for the world.”Ross admitted to some young readers on a school visit recently that he liked to sneak his friends and family into his illustrations from time to time, but Ridley hasn’t appeared yet.“My next picture book is going to be about a zoo, so he might get in there,” he muses.“Although, in fact, Mabel Jones has a baby sister which calls for a few horrific baby screaming pictures, and I do have some experience now of what that looks like.....”