Pervert conductor faces jail for sex abuseA WORLD renowned conductor faces jail for sexually abusing two young boys.Joseph Cullen preyed on his victims while involved with choirs in Glasgow in the late 1970s and early 80s.Cullen's attacks remained a secret as he later won two Grammy awards for his work with the famous London Symphony Chorus.But the married 55-year-old was brought to justice when a victim went to police in 2013, sparking a probe into the abuse.It lead to shamed Cullen admitting to two charges of using lewd and libidinous conduct when he appeared at the High Court in Glasgow.A judge heard how a victim wishes he had a &quot;magic wand&quot; to rid what happened while the other went from &quot;a really talented boy&quot; to ending up homeless due to his ordeal.Cullen had his bail continued meantime and will learn his fate next month. The father-of-three's abuse spanned between 1976 and 1982.The first boy was groomed shortly after joining a choir at St Aloysius Church in Glasgow, of which Cullen was also a member.The child was aged around eight when the attacks began. Prosecutor Steven Borthwick told how Cullen would secretly give the child &quot;pocket money&quot;.Cullen - at the time in his mid-late teens - then gained the trust of the boy's parents and would often visit the family home. It was there the first incident took place before Cullen again molested the child at the house.The final more serious attack also occurred there in 1978. The victim did not see his abuser again for more than a decade when they were both at a wedding.Cullen met his second victim in the early 80s while choirmaster at singing group at Glasgow's St Andrew's Cathedral.Mr Borthwick told the court: &quot;The boy would go to choir practice. The accused would drive him to and from there and would instigate excuses for the boy to be within his vehicle.&quot;Cullen again &quot;gained the trust and friendship&quot; of this child's family. The boy was aged around 11 when first abused.He was preyed upon at Cullen's then home in the city's Riddrie and in the changing area at the cathedral. Cullen also attacked the boy in his car while driving him from school where the pervert was also a music teacher.It was only in 2007 when this victim - who by then was in his late 30s - confronted Cullen about what happened. He got the musician's contact details from his personal website.The victim asked Cullen did he remember what he did, but he insisted he could not. Cullen then said to him: &quot;If I can do anything, give you advice, help you...I'm here for you.&quot;But, it was not until 2013 that the victim went police. The Archdiocese of Glasgow was also alerted.It was around this time the first victim revealed to his family that he had been sexually abused. Glasgow-born Cullen met with the now 46-year-old and his father at the family home.Advocate depute Mr Borthwick said: &quot;The accused was asked questions with regards to the abuse.&quot;He admitted to manipulating, grooming and sexually abusing the victim.&quot; These incidents were also investigated by police in early 2014 leading to Cullen being held at his home in Otley, West Yorkshire.The court heard how the first victim has been left with &quot;big&quot; mental scars as a result of his ordeal.In a statement to prosecutors, he said: &quot;No amount of therapy or medication will fix that. I feel awkward. I feel guilt and I feel shame.&quot;I wish I had a magic wand that would fix it. It is part of my make up now, but its just a very difficult thing.&quot;The second victim also had personal issues growing up after suffering at Cullen's hands and ended up homeless.In her statement, his mum said: &quot;He was a really talented boy. He changed from such a lovely boy into someone we did not know - and we did not know why.&quot;While his victims struggled to cope, Cullen meantime carved out a prestigious career as a leading conductor, choir master and organist.He was most famous as a director of the London Symphony Chorus winning two Grammy awards. He has also been a conductor in America, France, Italy, Ireland and across the UK including at Westminster Cathedral.Cullen was latterly with the Huddersfield Choral Society in Yorkshire, but is believed to have resigned following these allegations.Judge Lord Turnbull deferred sentencing for reports and placed Cullen on the sex offenders register.