EVENTS are being held to mark Armed Forces Day with celebrations including parades, military displays and civic receptions.
Large crowds are expected to turn out as service personnel, veterans and cadets lead parades across the country.
Armed Forces Day was established in 2009 to honour the country’s servicemen and women and their families across the Army, Navy and RAF.
Its aim is to enable the public to demonstrate their support and appreciation for all those who serve and have served in the forces.
In Glasgow, Lord Provost Sadie Docherty, in her role as Lord Lieutenant, will lead the city’s celebrations in George Square as she takes the salute at the march-past at the Cenotaph.
She will be joined by First Minister Nicola Sturgeon as well as senior representatives of all the services.
She said: “It is important that our serving military and our veterans know they have the support of this city and the whole of Britain. A highlight for me, as well as the march-past and the music of the Royal Marines Band Scotland, is the opportunity to meet veterans and servicemen and women.”
The 200th anniversary of the Battle of Waterloo will be marked before events are held in Edinburgh, with the Duke of Kent taking a salute outside the City Chambers.
Later, an Armed Forces Day parade will make its way to the Grassmarket area where speeches will be held, including from Scottish Secretary David Mundell.
The parade is followed by entertainment including live music, a mobile climbing wall for children and various charity stalls.
Edinburgh’s Lord Provost Donald Wilson said: “This city has a long and proud tradition of supporting the armed forces and our veterans.
“Holding a day in their honour provides a great morale boost for the troops and their families and the parade and live entertainment is the city’s way of saying thank-you.”
Aberdeen will welcome more than 1,000 serving, veteran and cadet force personnel with a march through the city which will also include massed pipes and drums and vintage military vehicles.
It will be followed by activities at Queen’s Links, with a helicopter, tank, armoured car and other vehicles on show.
Lord Provost George Adam said: “This is a day to honour the men and women of our armed forces past and present and to thank them for their service to the country. It’s also a fantastic spectacle and a great day out for the family.”
Other events are being staged in locations including Stranraer, Paisley, Inverness and Dundee.
This year’s national Armed Forces Day event is taking place in Guildford. Last year it was held in Stirling.
• Ten ways to cut your home energy bills
