SCOTLAND’S most wanted man is working as an enforcer for an Irish mafia boss in Spain.
The Record can reveal that murder suspect Derek “Deco” Ferguson is on the payroll of international drug trafficker Christy Kinahan and is being protected by former Glasgow heroin dealer Richard Hayes.
Ferguson fled Scotland after barman Tam Cameron, 49, was shot dead outside the Auchinairn Tavern in Bishopbriggs, Glasgow.
Fellow suspect Billy Bates was found dead in the Clyde weeks after the murder in June 2007.
Police believe Bates was killed before he could give himself up and they are keen to speak to Ferguson about what happened to him.
Ferguson is thought to be hiding in Marbella and Calahonda in southern Spain. Intelligence suggests he has also spent time in Holland, Portugal and Ireland.
 

Despite high-profile appeals – including Crimestoppers’ Operation Captura – he remains at large.
Today, for the first time, we publish a new picture of Ferguson, 50, taken shortly after he fled Scotland.
Detective Inspector David Wilson, head of Police Scotland’s fugitive unit, said: “This warrant is not going away. We will track him down.
“Ferguson is now in his 50s and if he is convicted, it is unlikely he will see the light of day again.”
Ferguson is sporting a beard in the black-and-white image.
His most distinguishing feature is visible – the missing chunk of his left ear – but officers are working on the theory that he may have had cosmetic surgery to repair the damage.
Dad-of-three Ferguson is thought to have several aliases and may have bulked up to alter his appearance.
But Wilson, below right, added: “The one thing he can’t change is his height. He’s only 5ft 3in.”
 

Kinahan, 58, is understood to have recruited Ferguson two years ago.
The Dublin gangster, known as the Dapper Don, runs a lucrative global crime empire built on drugs, arms smuggling and money laundering and is said to be the richest criminal in Irish history.
He has built up a vast property portfolio with dirty cash in Brazil and his connections are said to include the Russian mafia and Colombian drug cartels.
His sons Christopher Jnr and Daniel are involved in the family business and Kinahan is thought to have been behind a bet-to-lose horse-racing scam in the UK in 2004. Top jockey Kieren Fallon was acquitted when an Old Bailey trial collapsed.
In 2008, Kinahan was arrested by Belgian police for laundering assets worth &pound;1.7million and jailed for four years.
He appealed the verdict, was let out on bail and brazenly fled to Spain.
In 2010, Kinahan and his sons were arrested during a massive probe into his drug empire, estimated to be worth &pound;355million.
 

Operation Shovel was spearheaded by the UK Serious Organised Crime Agency and resulted in 32 arrests in Spain, the UK and Ireland.
It also saw Kinahan extradited to Belgium to serve his sentence.
Since his release in April 2013, a number of tit-for-tat murders and violent attacks in Spain have been linked to a drugs turf war.
An underworld source said: “Deco has got to earn a wage one way or another.
“It’s eight years since he fled Scotland and while criminal associates have helped him out, to survive for that length of time you have to be earning money. His history in Glasgow and the west of Scotland was always as a gangland enforcer working on behalf of other people.
“He is a violent man and he gets brought out to serve a purpose.
“In Spain, he is simply doing what he is good at.”
Last month, Irish gangland thug Paul Rice was reported to have left Kinahan’s mob for a rival Scottish crime group.
The split came after his best friend Gerard “Hatchet” Kavanagh was shot dead in Spain in last September.
 

His younger brother Paul Kavanagh was also shot dead outside a Dublin pub in March. Both men are believed to have been assassinated on the orders of the Kinahan trafficking syndicate.
The gang have also been involved in bloody disputes with rival Dutch, Russian and English criminals.
Ferguson is being looked after in Spain by Richard Hayes, who started his criminal career selling heroin in Easterhouse, Glasgow. Ferguson and his twin brother worked as street dealers for him in the 1980s.
Our source said: “Ricky is often referred to as the godfather of Scots criminals in Spain. He is semi-retired but is keen to pass his connections on to the next generation. Ricky is making sure Derek is looked after.”
It is understood Hayes also protected William Paterson, who was jailed last month for the execution of Kevin “Gerbil” Carroll.
The feared Daniel crime clanthug was shot dead as he sat in a car outside Asda in Robroyston, Glasgow, in January 2010.
 

Paterson, 35, fled after the murder but handed himself in to Spanish cops after four years on the run. After he was jailed for 22 years last month, we revealed Gerbil’s murder was sanctioned by the Lyons family.
In a further twist, Stephen Lyons – son of crime clan boss Eddie and Paterson’s best friend – is dating Hayes’s granddaughter Amanda.
Police Scotland will today publish the new Ferguson mugshot on the Most Wanted section of their website. Wilson vowed officers will be relentless in their pursuit of the suspected killer.
He said: “The Cameron family are still waiting for justice.
“It is with regret that we are eight years down the line and we still haven’t given them closure.
“I would ask the public to take a good look at the image. Many people will be travelling abroad in the next few weeks for a summer holiday.”
Anyone with any information should contact Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111 or Police Scotland on 101.
Try our quick news quiz below:

