DRUG mule Melissa Reid is set to fly home within weeks after a Peruvian court approved her transfer to a Scottish prison.
The 21-year-old, from Lenzie, near Glasgow, is two years into a near seven-year sentence for trafficking cocaine worth &pound;1.5million with Irish accomplice Michaella McCollum.
Now a bid lodged over a year ago to escape Lima’s notorious Ancon 2 desert prison has been approved by a senior judge.
Following a hearing on Friday, transfer documents have been passed to the Peruvian ministry of justice to be signed off by the president, a process which usually takes up to three weeks.
This means Scottish Prison Service (SPS) officers could be arranging to collect Reid from Peru within days.
 


Her parents Billy and Debbie broke the news to Reid after meeting lawyers in the South American country and have received written confirmation from the Foreign Office.
Billy, 55, said: “We are delighted that we will soon have our daughter back home.
“It has been incredibly hard to live our lives knowing Melissa is thousands of miles away in a foreign prison and we are constantly worrying about her health and wellbeing.
“In Scotland she’ll be able to serve her time in conditions that do not breach her basic human rights and will have regular visits from family and friends.
“We must pay her air fare and are making arrangements to ensure the transaction is swift. We are proud of how Melissa has coped. She is maturing and dealing with her sentence as best she can.”
 


 Reid and McCollum were jailed for six years and eight months after attempting to smuggle 11kg of cocaine out of Lima International Airport in August 2013. When they were arrested by airport police, the pair initially claimed they was  forced to carry the Class A drug against their will. 
They pled guilty a month later after being warned they could face 15 years behind bars if found guilty at trial.
In Scotland, Reid would be considered for parole half way through her sentence and would probably be treated as a “low risk”, which could see her qualify for home leave.
An SPS spokesman said: “When the application has been approved, we will make the necessary arrangements for a swift transfer.”
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

