Stirling Council this week gave further details of a bold plan to revitalise the city.
As outlined in the Observer earlier this month, the &pound;200m City Development Framework contains proposals earmarked for Forthside, the Old Town and city centre aimed at boosting economic growth and creating jobs.
These include a digital hub, a state-of-the-art business incubation centre, a new marketplace, a new civic centre and a new city parkland.
It is being drawn up in association with public and private sector stakeholders and a Stirling City Commission, which was set up at the start of the year and whose job it will be to bring the ambitious scheme to fruition.
Councillors discussed the draft framework plan at Thursday's full council meeting and a final version of the plan will be brought back to council in October.
Council leader Johanna Boyd, who will chair the commission, said: “Stirling is an incredible place with much to offer, but to flourish in an increasingly competitive global economic environment, we need to be bold and committed.
“This ambitious plan is designed to re-position Stirling as an economic and cultural powerhouse; building on our unique advantages, advancing investment opportunities and encouraging diversification and growth for the benefit of all our citizens and communities.”
It is hoped that the digital hub will provide the “innovation spark” in the strategy to combat low productivity and falling GVA – the value of goods and services produced – in the city.
The report by SLR Consulting Ltd suggests the hub – costed at &pound;5 million – could be around 10,000sq ft and operate as a 24/7 venue in the old town and would be a “seedbed of product development and cutting edge technology” to position the city as a leader in digital technologies.
The plan also proposes a &pound;30m metropolitan arts centre to act as a platform for creative industry projects and curtail competition from the likes of Glasgow, Edinburgh, Falkirk and Perth.
The consultants note: “The effect of strong competition elsewhere is borne out by the depressed evening economy in Stirling, the struggling viability of its existing venues and the empty streets in the city centre.
“This further hinders Stirling’s attempts to hold on to, and take added value from, its established heritage audiences which extend too little dwell time in the city centre – a major disconnect in the city’s economy – favouring new competitor attractions such as Falkirk’s Kelpies and the Falkirk Wheel.”
Other concepts include: a ‘royal market’ located under fixed canopies in the old town with suggested trading hours of 4pm-8pm; a revitalised cultural quarter at the top of the town to create a hub for the arts and creative industries; a heritage park in the shadow of Stirling Castle – estimated at &pound;20 million – that would link the King’s Park with Back O’Hill, Falleninch field, Gowan Hall, Back Walk and Old Bridge to provide space for events, public art, leisure and recreation.
Council Chief Executive Stewart Carruth said the city was “very lucky” for being well connected and having a “wonderful tradition of heritage”.
He said: “Stirling is thinking about its future and how we can attract people and business to the area and create a vibrant and cosmopolitan city for everyone to enjoy.”
