IT STARTED off as a tiny dot, a little lump she noticed while putting on her body lotion. She thought it was a spot caused by fake tan, but then it kept getting bigger.
Four months later, doctors broke the news that Diane Knox had skin cancer – intermediate/advanced. The tiny dot had grown and grown.
Now it has been replaced by a 5in scar. The popular Clyde 1 DJ whips off her jacket in the middle of a coffee shop to show me.
“There,” she says, pointing out a long line down her right shoulder.
“And there,” she says as she shows me a two-inch scar in her armpit. “And here,” as she pulls her top aside to reveal another inch-long scar above her collarbone.
For a woman who is the epitome of glamour, these reminders of the last seven months must be difficult to deal with.
 

I put this to her, but she denies it.
She says: “I tried to cover them up at first but now I don’t care.
 “They are a constant reminder to me of what has happened and why it’s so  important that I keep checking myself.” 
It was this pragmatic attitude that saved Knoxy, 32, as she is known to her radio fans, from even more advanced cancer and the inevitable gruelling treatment it would bring.
After first feeling the “little spot”, she went to the doctor.
She said: “They gave me steroid cream but I knew it was getting bigger. I kept going back because I knew something was wrong.
“I don’t want to criticise the GP, not at all, but it’s so important that if you think something is wrong you keep going, keep getting checked.
“If I hadn’t and this hadn’t been caught, it could have been a lot worse. I was so lucky I found it.”
 

 It is terrifying how quickly skin cancer can develop. Cases of the disease in  Scotland have increased by more than 30 per cent in the past decade. 
There were 1172 diagnoses of melanoma in 2013, making it the sixth most common form of cancer.
Early diagnosis is the key and self- examination is vital.
Diane said: “If I hadn’t found it that day when I was moisturising, I don’t know what would have happened. That’s why you have to check. Get your partner to check you too – there are bits you can’t reach.”
Of course, when you have cancer, everyone has a story.
Diane said: “Someone told me how they knew a woman who was in the changing room at her gym who was approached by another woman who said, ‘I hope you don’t mind but I’m a nurse and I think you should get that mole on your back checked’.
“It was skin cancer.”
That is the power of awareness. And that is why Diane wants to talk about her experience.
 

 To her daily listeners on Clyde, and across Scotland on the Bauer network every Sunday, she is the sunny, chatty girl from the Highlands who is up for a giggle and plays their favourite music. But she admits that after her diagnosis and  treatment, she withdrew. 
“How do you tell people you have cancer?” she asks, still smiling as ever.
“People kept saying, ‘You’re always on holiday.’ In reality I was at the doctor’s and the hospital. There are still people who don’t know. It’s just so difficult to talk about.”
But her smile slips when she speaks of the one phone call she had to make, breaking the news to her beloved parents Mike and Val, who live in Florida. “I called my mum and told her. She was so matter-of-fact and I thought, ‘Thanks a lot, mum.’”
Then, minutes later, Diane’s brother Russell, 29, a successful US-based golfer, phoned her.
Diane recalled: “He said, ‘What have you just told mum? She’s just called me and can barely speak she is so upset.’
 

“She was just trying to be strong for me. My mum and dad are amazing.”
Of course, Diane’s family wanted to get the first flight to Scotland to look after her, but she was having none of it.
“That would have been too weird,” she said. “I told them to wait until I started my treatment, when I’d really need them.”
The treatment started in February, when the mole that had developed was removed in hospital in Glasgow. Results showed it was cancerous.
In April, tissue in that area was removed along with lymph nodes, resulting in the three scars Diane has now.
She took three weeks off work to recuperate and wait for the results. Her doctor admitted her surgery was not as straightforward as he had anticipated.
 Then she got the news she was waiting for. The cancer hadn’t spread, so no  chemotherapy or radiotherapy. 
The relief was overwhelming.
 

 Now it’s a matter of regular hospital check-ups for five years and intense  self-examination every month. 
Typically, Diane has been searching for answers about why this happened to her.
I ask if she used sunbeds. She replies: “I did when I first moved to Glasgow. I was really young and there was one across the road from where I lived. I’m quite fair and would use them a little bit. We didn’t realise how dangerous it was.
“But never, ever again. I can’t stress that enough.”
Diane is also a regular visitor to America to see her family. “I used to start my holidays with SPF 30, then move down to 15 and then eight,” she says. “Now it will be total sunblock.”
She visited the US last month to watch Russell in the Players Championship. Despite the 40C heat, she wore long sleeves and a hat.
“It isn’t just the area where they found the cancer I have to protect,” she says.
“My doctor told me about cases where people have had it between their toes and in all sorts of parts you wouldn’t expect.”
 

 It’s clear family are everything to Diane. They will be in Scotland soon for the  Scottish Open at Gullane, and The Open at St Andrews to see Russell compete. 
But with them on the other side of the Atlantic, her army of friends, her supportive bosses at Clyde, two wonderful cancer nurses and her boyfriend kept her going. They only met late last year, so it must have been a baptism of fire for him.
“He came to every appointment with me,” she says, the beaming smile back. “I really found out who my friends were. And my bosses couldn’t have been better.”
For now, Diane is looking forward. She is back on air and back at the gym. She took part in the Tough Mudder race to raise funds for the Maryam Najafian Foundation.
We meet two days before and Diane laughs when she admits she’s packed dry shampoo in her kit bag. This isn’t vanity – she is a master of self-deprecation.

 
Diane’s brush with cancer has taught her the important things in life. But it has also shown her how being aware of your body can save your life.
“This experience has taught me how important it is to be health and body aware,” she says.
“Most importantly, it has taught me how precious life is and you have to live every day and be happy.”
 Try our quick quiz below: 

