TODDLER Andrew Morton was shot and killed by an air gun maniac more than 10 long years ago.
And today his family were at the Scottish Parliament to watch MSPs finally pass a law designed to prevent similar tragedies.
It marked the end of a campaign for an “Andrew’s Law” that had taken the two-year-old’s mum Sharon McMillan 3768 days to see through to a successful conclusion.
Speaking at Holyrood, she said: “ We are totally delighted that, finally, it’s got to this stage .
“I thought it would have taken two or three years – never all this time. But I promised Andrew we wouldn’t give up and we didn’t.
“This is for Andrew. It’s been a hard campaign.
“It’s been a struggle but you pick your chin up and get on with it because you are fighting for something that’s important. All I am fighting for is Andrew’s Law.”
The toddler was being carried by his older brother Brian, then 13, when he was shot in the head by vicious Mark Bonini on March 2, 2005.
 

The brothers had been on the way to a chip shop near their home in Easterhouse, Glasgow, when the shooting happened.
Giving evidence in court, Brian said he heard a “pop” and then noticed blood was coming from the back of his brother’s head.
Heroin addict Bonini, who had been taking pot-shots with an air rifle from his window, is in jail for Andrew’s murder.
In August 2005, the thug was jaied for life and ordered to spend at least 13 years in prison. But today, Sharon said she wished Bonini could die in jail.
She said: “He’s due out soon. Andrew would have been 13 just there, so he’s due out in the next three years.
“I don’t think he should ever be allowed out. Life to me should mean life. He’s been an animal all his life and I don’t think he should see the light of day again to ruin some other kid’s life.”
 

MSPs approved the Air Weapons and Licensing (Scotland) Bill , which will require anyone owning an air gun to have a licence and a valid reason for keeping the weapon.
Sharon said the legislation would stop a lot of airgun crime. She said pof those who defgy the law: “I hope they throw away the key.”
Speaking at Holyrood. Justice Secretary Michael said no family should have to suffer like Andrew’s has.
He added: “We have a long-standing commitment to reducing gun crime and the licensing of air weapons has been central to that aim.
“It featured in our manifesto in 2007 and 2011, and the powers to regulate on air weapons were finally devolved to this Parliament in the Scotland Act of 2012 .
“We have acted on this new power, consulting widely with experts and the public.
“Our proposals have not always been universally welcomed, but we believe they strike the right balance between respecting the interests of those people who shoot legitimately for work, sport, pest control or leisure,and the need to ensure that those who misuse guns do not have access to them.”
 

Matheson stressed the legislation was not a ban on air guns, but it would prevent those who “deliberately and maliciously” target people, animals and property from accessing the weapons.
Labour backed the Bill, despite saying it was “far from ideal”.
The Tories and Lib Dems supported many parts of the legislation, but said they could not back measures relating to the licensing of air weapons, arguing that the matter should have been addressed in a separate piece of legislation.
Labour’s Cara Hilton said: “In respect of air weapons, Scottish Labour fully support the proposals in this Bill.
“There is absolutely no doubt in my mind that these air weapons are dangerous. The tragic death of two-year-old Andrew Morton 10 years ago and the heartache that his family continues to endure every day highlights the real pressing need to act to prevent future tragedies.”
 

But Tory MSP Cameron Buchanan said it would have been better to concentrate on enforcing exiting laws, rather than creating a new one.
The new legislation was also panned by pro-shooting lobby groups.
The British Association for Shooting and Conservation’s Scottish committee chairman Alan Balfour, said: “It is bitterly disappointing that the Scottish Government has seen fit to bring in this law in the face of all the evidence against it. This is a policy that has been driven by tabloid outrage, not reason and evidence.
“Law-abiding shooters will now have to face the bureaucratic administrative nightmare that will be airgun licensing for no public benefit whatsoever.”
The legislation, which was passed by 92 votes to 17, also includes tougher rules on pubs, strip bars, taxi firms and scrap dealers.
Try our quick news quiz below:

