 NO porkies – how many restaurants are making pigs of themselves by throwing one of  our favourite farmyard animals into their titles? 
Recently, in Glasgow and Edinburgh alone, we’ve seen The Butterfly and the Pig, The Crafty Pig, The Blind Pig, The Pig and Whistle and even The Kilted Pig.
The only surprise is no sharp-eyed entrepreneur has yet spotted a niche in the market for kids’ dining and come up with The Pepper Pig.
Swine fever shows no sign of abating in our pub and grub game and now they’re even arguing for the right to reference the animal in signage as trite as the claims of many restaurants to use only locally-sourced ingredients (in a visit to one place recently the waiter didn’t even blush when yours truly asked where he sourced his meat.
‘Booker’s Cash and Carry,’ he replied. It was half a mile along the road, to be fair).
 The Pop Up Pig at Partick Cross hasn’t so much popped up as risen, phoenix-like, from  the ashes of The Butterfly and the Pig, which has moved southside to complement its original bar/restaurant on Bath Street. 
It prompted a spat between the owners as the butterfly stung like a bee by claiming the new landlords were effectively trading on the good name they had built at the bottom of Byres Road but, ultimately, could not sustain.
 Rubbish, came the response, so many Scottish boozers are named after pigs that any legal  bid would weave a web around the Scottish justice system that not even Charlotte could spin. 
If it looks like a pig and oinks like a pig, the chances are – it’s a pig.
And if there’s any criticism of its compact menu, it lacks a clear sense of identity. It offers a couple of burgers but isn’t a burger joint, mussels and oysters but it doesn’t specialise in seafood, steaks and ribs but it’s not a chophouse.
 It makes a couple of stabs at French influences, but labelling the lentil as ‘soup de jour’  suggests it’s trying a little too hard to impress. 
The menu is not particularly extensive and there wasn’t a specials board on offer the night we dropped in, which means the chef will have to turn its offerings around on a regular basis if it hopes to stay ahead of the game.
There are half a dozen restaurants within a 400-metre radius specialising in some of the best Chinese, Indian, vegetarian and Scottish bistro offerings in their class and if the Pop Up Pig is to prosper, it will have to find a unique selling point, which isn’t yet evident.
That said, the food we enjoyed on the night we visited suggested there is enough talent in the kitchen to keep it ahead of the game in a crowded market.
Heather started with pan-fried king prawns in a garlic butter with cumbersome chunks of baguette (she reckoned they were pointless, they remained untouched), but the seafood was spot on, five fat and well-cooked pieces in a surprisingly subtle sauce.
 

Ross had gone for the smoked salmon with beetroot and cr&egrave;me fra&icirc;che and served on top of crisp, fresh lettuce leaves, it hit the spot as it added a smashing crunch to the sweet veg and fish, which was plentiful but not overpowering.
My smoked bacon salad with croutons and a poached egg was just as good as the runny yolk soaked into the soft bacon, finely salted, and the bite-sized pieces of lightly fried bread, with a green salad adding another fine layer of taste and texture.
Unfortunately, the main courses didn’t quite hit the same highs.
Ross went for the risotto verdi and although the rice was presented perfectly, he reckoned some of the green veg were undercooked and a bit hard.
 Heather went for good old mac and cheese, but even with gruyere and Parmesan, she reckoned it was fairly bland – and the offer of yet more slabs of baguette on the side took the dish into  a carb overload on which she barely made a dent. 
 However, my linguine with king prawn, olive oil and red chilli was terrific – the pasta was cooked perfectly al dente and there was just enough kick in the chilli to add heat to the seafood without  scorching the tongue and tonsils. 
We skipped desserts for coffees, which were served by friendly, well-mannered staff who were on the ball at every stage.
The Pig may only recently have popped up, but it did just enough to persuade us it was worth popping in.
 ● Got a restaurant you want reviewed? Contact g.ralston @dailyrecord.co.uk or via Twitter @garyshotplate 
