TELL the man in your life that you’re taking him out to a club to see a woman in her pants and he will have his coat on before you’ve finished the sentence.
Add that it’s a comedy club and she gets her kit off as part of an anti-body shaming monologue against society’s &shy;obsession with women’s weights and &shy;measurements, and his enthusiasm may droop.
But Luisa Omielan, who is performing in Glasgow this week ahead of a residency at Edinburgh Fringe, claims that fellas not only enjoy her performance – they can learn from it.
“I’ve always had men leave my show and say it was really interesting,” she explained. (Which is one way of describing an hour of terrifyingly honest insights into the body image, relationships and mental health of young women in the early 21st century.)
 

“They say things like, s***, I’ve done that. I’ve been like that with a girl. I’ve had guy friends ring ex-girlfriends and apologise for their behaviour after seeing the show.”
And when she strips down to her iron pants, they don’t know what to do with &shy;themselves.
“They don’t know where to look,” she said. “The women in the audience are cheering like you wouldn’t believe and having a really good time. But men are surprised how much they like the show. It’s the one place they are in the minority for a change. It’s their chance to see things from the other side.” Luisa actually started getting naked on stage to divert &shy;attention from her appearance.
“Women are always judged on our body image and what we look like and how much we weigh,” she said. “By taking my clothes off, I’m saying this is what I weigh, these are my boobs, I’m a woman doing comedy, let’s get over it and talk about something a bit more relevant and important. Please.”

Now when she talks about her belly on stage, she says: “I like looking fly. But I also like Greggs,” adding “Don’t tell me how many calories are on my plate. It’s called a Happy Meal for a reason.”
And when a Hollywood agent told her she had to be skinny and glamorous to make it in the US, she said: “Have you seen my earring? How much more skinny and glamorous could it be?”
Luisa was not always a gut-jiggling &shy;powerhouse of self-love. After years on the stand-up circuit she found herself, aged 28, skint, single and clinically depressed. A job on an IT help desk did not help. Beyonce, she noted, was the same age as she was. What would that goddess of booty confidence do?
The result of this introspection was her first solo show, What Would Beyonce Do?! It’s part girly bonding, part what Bridget Jones would be like if she worked in Superdrug rather than a swanky publishing house. It was a huge hit at the Edinburgh Fringe and beyond.
In her follow-up, Am I Right Ladies?!, Luisa has moved on. Gone is the headful of dark curls – now she’s a dazzling blonde, with hair so bright it could be irradiated, and an &shy;attitude to match.
But her show remains autobiographical. “The first show was, guys, I’m &shy;heartbroken, I’ve been dumped, my career’s not going where I want,” she explained. “The second is, the career’s getting there but I’m ready for some d***.”
As she puts it on stage: “I can get the job of the dreams, the baby of my dreams, I don’t even need a dude for that, I can get it off Google. But when it comes to dudes, I’m back to 1812.”
There is a lot of frank talk and NSFW language in Luisa’s show. But none of it is directed at men.
“I’m very careful not to slag off men,” she said. “I’ve never had a man leave my show saying I’m a man-hater. I’m a big fan of men.
&quot;I’m just aware of my behaviour around them so I mock that. There’s no point blaming guys for this. It’s not men who are making us feel bad about our bodies. We are making ourselves feel like this.”
 

Blokes, as she points out on stage, do not care about lumps, bumps and wobble. “Like I say in the show, as long as it’s warm, wet and clean it’s fine. They’re grateful. He’s not calling me fat, he’s f****** grateful he’s getting some.”
And they are pleased to see a woman acknowledging this. Fellow comedian Adam Hills told Luisa that he loves seeing her being that confident on stage “because that’s how we feel about our wives and our partners”.
She added: “I’ve had messages from guys saying, ‘My girlfriend has got low self-esteem, she always hates herself and her body. Thank you so much for making her feel better, she’s come out with the biggest smile on her face’.”
But while live audiences adore Luisa’s approach, TV and radio are not so sure. Despite success at Edinburgh, abroad and on tour, she has yet to break into panel shows. A four-minute spot with John Bishop on Saturday was, she hopes, the first of many.
“It’s not a character, it’s very much me. It’s very, very honest and that’s why people love it. But that’s why TV’s scared, they don’t want to talk about anti-depressants or being fat.
 

“We can make middle-class men jokes. Lad humour we can do till the cows come home. We can do fart and d*** jokes for as long as we want. But heaven forbid you should do anything about a woman’s body weight or vagina or feeling let down in relationships.”
Luisa is trying to get round the &shy;mainstream’s reluctance to give her a break by crowdfunding a recording of her own show and putting it online. She’s asking fans to &shy;pre-order the DVD to raise the cash to make it.
“I feel that TV isn’t just ignoring me, it’s ignoring my audience,” she said.
She is also aware that, by the time TV execs have steeled themselves for a bottle blonde in control underwear, she will have moved on.
“I don’t want to be 40 and doing the same show. What I’m doing is relevant to me now and I want to share that right now,” she added.
In fact she has a title in mind for her third show. “It’s Famous With A Baby. After the last two shows it would be saying, it’s all worked out all right, here’s my baby and here’s my career.”
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

