OUTLANDER star Gary Lewis has spoken of his disappointment the multi-million pound Scottish series isn’t available for his aunties to watch on normal telly.
Gary, who plays Callum MacKenzie alongside stars such as Sam Heughan and Graham McTavish in the TV adaptation of Diana Gabaldon’s historical drama, says it’s a “blow” that the series is available only to customers of internet telly service Amazon Prime.
The Billy Elliot star said: “It’s a bit of a blow for fans here, especially because they waited such a long time for it.
&quot;There are an awful lot of people who just watch 'council' telly.
“I know my aunties aren’t going to watch Amazon Prime, for example, because it’s not readily accessible.
&quot;I guess it will be good for raising the profile of Amazing Prime, though.”
 

Gary was speaking at the launch of LearnGaelic.scot a new Gaelic language learning website.
He added: “It was pretty daunting to learn Gaelic for Outlander.
&quot;It wasn’t just phrases, but big speeches too.
&quot;If a website like this one had been around back when we were starting the series, then we’d have been using it as a tool.”
Outlander’s resident Gaelic expert &Agrave;dhamh &Oacute; Broin said: “I get dozens of people on a daily basis contacting me from all around the world wanting to learn Gaelic because of Outlander.
“Now it’s great to be able to send them to a website on their journey of exploration.”
The second series of Outlander, made by US company Starz, is currently filming around Scotland.
 

Meanwhile, Gary has called for wider debate over the much talked-about establishment of a Scottish film studio.
Dundee, Edinburgh and Glasgow have been earmarked as potential sites for a multi-million pound filming facility enabling Scotland to capitalise on the success of projects like Outlander, shot in a purpose-built studio in Cumbernauld.
But Gary said: “I would like to see the establishment of a forum where there was a really good, intelligent discussion about it, because I don’t feel that folk are furnished with enough information.
&quot;People with valid viewpoints and experience of the film making industry here aren’t really having their input heard.
“There should be a forum, which meets regularly made up of technicians, film makers, writers, actors and so on.
&quot;Some of the people who have worked in Scotland have worked all over the world and they would have a lot to say about it.
&quot;We can learn from their lessons and experience.”
The Gangs of New York, My Name is Joe and Orphans star added: “There are more questions needing to be asked before we ask whether there should even be a film studio.
&quot;At this stage the agenda shouldn’t be about whether it’s in Glasgow or Edinburgh.
“Questions about the sustainability of funding, whether there would be money left after that to actually fund the making of stuff in Scotland - these are the questions I’d like to hear being discussed.
&quot;There are all sorts of attendant questions which aren’t getting enough of an airing currently.
“It’s not as simple of being in favour of a studio in Scotland or not, or saying, ‘Look what they did with Outlander...’.”
Know your Outlander from your Outnumbered? Try our Entertainment Quiz below.

