POP star Taylor Swift's latest album - the immensely catchy '1989' - will be available to stream on Apple Music after the tech giant's &quot;change of heart&quot;.
Swifty didn't want her music used by a service that didn't pay artists or labels while their music was being enjoyed during the company's 90-day free trial period for all users.
After the entire internet got behind Taylor, Apple backtracked on their discrepancy to ensure 1989 was available for users after the new service launches on June 30.

The star, who is gearing up to her British Summer Time show on Saturday, tweeted on Thursday: &quot;After the events of this week, I've decided to put 1989 on Apple Music...and happily so.
&quot;This is simply the first time it's felt right in my gut to stream my album. Thank you, Apple, for your change of heart.&quot;
 
This is simply the first time it's felt right in my gut to stream my album. Thank you, Apple, for your change of heart.

 
In case you're wondering if this is some exclusive deal like you've seen Apple do with other artists, it's not.

 
After the events of this week, I've decided to put 1989 on Apple Music...and happily so.

 
Taylor also insisted that her decision was not because of a private deal.
She added: &quot;In case you're wondering if this is some exclusive deal like you've seen Apple do with other artists, it's not.&quot;
 

Eddy Cue, Apple’s senior vice president of Internet services and software acknowledged Taylor’s issues, and took it on board by changing the deal.
Cue tweeted the Grammy award-winning star:
 
We hear you @taylorswift13 and indie artists. Love, Apple

He also said in a magazine interview: &quot;When I woke up this morning and saw what Taylor had written, it really solidified that we needed to make a change. And so that's why we decide we will now pay artists during the trial period.&quot;
Upon hearing Cue’s decision, Taylor said: &quot;I am elated and relieved. Thank you for your words of support today. They listened to us.&quot;
Apple's Senior VP Cue replied:
 
See you on #AppleMusic on June 30th! https://t.co/ajNnMV6TNA

 
 

Her actions even got a little mention from We Found Love boyfriend Calvin Harris.
&quot;I just played a gig inside a giant owl and my girl just changed the entire music industry what a day,&quot; he tweeted.

 Try our quick showbiz quiz below: 

