A spot of gardening in her lunch hour led to a trip of a lifetime for an inspirational mum.
 As Caroline Speirs was planting flowers, former Towie star Mark Wright suddenly appeared in a helicopter and whisked  her away. 
She was flown to London, given a makeover, met her idol Lorraine Kelly and appeared on STV show Surprise Surprise with Holly Willoughby.
The whole day was arranged for the programme by her daughter, who kept it all a secret from stunned Caroline, 48.
The surprise started when she had gone at her lunchtime to Calum’s Cabin, the holiday home she and her family help run for terminally ill children in Rothesay on the Isle of Bute.
She was shocked to see TV star Mark suddenly arrive. Refusing to reveal why he was there, he bundled Caroline into a helicopter and flew her to the mainland, where she was put on a flight to London.
The following day, the mum – who was still in the dark about what was happening – met Lorraine at the ITV studios and was given a makeover by stylist to the stars Mark Heyes.
Caroline, who runs the Calum’s Cabin charity with her husband Duncan, 51, and daughter Jenna, 20, didn’t realise she was a guest on Surprise Surprise until the studio doors opened and she saw host Holly sitting on the sofa.
 

 She said: “I am still in shock. I was in work one minute and nipped up to the cabin in  my lunch hour to put in a few plants when a helicopter started circling and landed in a field. 
 “The next thing I knew, Mark was  coming towards me. He told me to get into the helicopter but wouldn’t tell me why. Luckily, he was a very pleasant and smiley kidnapper and I was in no way frightened, just bemused. 
“I said I had to be back at work in 10 minutes but was reassured everything had been sorted and Duncan had packed me a bag – which scared me more than anything.
“We got a plane from Glasgow to London and the only instruction I was given was to be at the ITV studios next morning at 8.30am, where I was met by Mark, who gave me a tour.
 “He showed me into a studio and there was  Lorraine. We had a lovely chat and then Mark Heyes appeared with a selection of clothes and shoes he picked for me. 
“It wasn’t until that evening that the penny dropped when I was asked to stand behind a door, which opened to reveal Holly on the set of Surprise Surprise. That’s when the tears started.”
Caroline’s surprise, which airs tonight, was masterminded by Jenna, who wanted to do something special for a woman who has made such a huge difference to so many people’s lives.
The Speirs family launched Calum’s Cabin in memory of their son, who lost his fight with cancer in 2007 at the age of 12. Building a holiday haven, where families who have a child dealing with cancer or a cancer-related disease can go to make memories, was Calum’s dying wish.
 Caroline, Duncan and Calum’s twin Jenna have spent the last eight years  ensuring his dream became a reality.  They have raised &pound;2million and helped more than 500 families, some of whom pay tribute to them on tonight’s show. 
 Caroline said: “I was fine until Holly revealed Duncan and Jenna were there too. When some of our family appeared on the big screen, I completely lost it.  Seeing photos of Calum was also hard but it reminded me of how far we’ve come and how many people’s lives he has changed. 
“Being on Surprise Surprise was the experience of a lifetime and I cannot thank Jenna enough for putting me forward.”
Jenna, who won a Sunday Mail Great Scot Award in 2008, spent months helping producers to organise the trip.
Caroline said: “I have two stars – one in heaven and one on Earth – and I couldn’t be prouder to be their mum.”
Surprise Surprise, STV, tonight, 8pm.

