SCOTS jihadi bride Aqsa Mahmood has described Friday’s terror attacks as “revenge” in a hateful online rant.
The runaway private schoolgirl posted a poem to her blog in which she says the incidents in Tunisia, France and Kuwait were historic.
Mahmood left her family in Glasgow and fled to Syria to join ISIS in November 2013 and marry one of their fighters.
She’s used the internet to promote the terror group and is currently at the centre of a Metropolitan Police investigation over claims she’s tried to recruit other young British Muslim women online.
In her blog on Friday, the 20-year-old, who posts under the name Umm Layth, said: “It is a day that will go down in history. A day of resistance and memory.
“In 3 different locations a family was born. Its name was change, freedom and revenge.
“Kuwait, France and Tunisia is where they reside.
“They left a mark which will always remain.
“Permanent and blunt.”
 

Her blog post emerged after Friday’s gun attack in Tunisia, which killed 38 including 15 Brits, the beheading in the south of France and the suicide bombing in Kuwait.
And she warned of further attacks, saying: “If you show no mercy with us then why should we with you?”
Mahmood, from the Pollokshields area of the city, became obsessed with Syria after witnessing civil war break out in 2013.
Last September her parents Muzaffar, 51, and Khalida, 43, made an emotional plea for her to return .
They revealed how she’d turned into a “bedroom radical” and accused her of betraying the family.
But the distraught couple said: “You have torn the heart out of our family and changed our lives forever. Please come home.”
Other online postings by the Scots jihadi bride:

Just a week later Mahmood responded in an online rant saying she had a new family in Syria.
The former Glasgow Caledonian University student said: “The family you get in exchange for leaving the ones behind are like the pearl in comparison to the shell you threw away into the foam of the sea which is the international Islamic community.
“The strength of the brotherhood and sisterhood here is most definitely shown through difficulties where someone who has no blood ties with you and not even a relation will make sure if their Muslim sister is in need of anything and if there is any problems.”
The Metropolitan Police have said their case against Mahmood is “well advanced” and say she could be arrested and brought back to the UK if she enters any EU country.

Try our quick news quiz below:

