NICOLA STURGEON has hailed the resilience of the people of Glasgow ahead of the reopening of the Clutha after the helicopter tragedy.
The First Minister spoke as the owner revealed the pub will open its doors by the end of July after the police helicopter crash that took 10 lives in November 2013.
She said: “The Clutha is a Glasgow institution and its reopening will be a very poignant event.
“Glasgow is my home and, like everyone across the city, shock was the overwhelming feeling I had that dreadful night.
“The tragedy impacted on everyone in the city and across the country.
 “However, tragedies do not define people, cities or countries – they are defined by how we respond, how we endure and  how we recover. 
“The Clutha reopening will be a major landmark in that recovery, demonstrating the resilience of this wonderful city and its people.”
Sturgeon has been invited to the opening by owner Alan Crossan, who says it should happen within weeks.
He has not touched the area where the Bond helicopter came down on the busy pub on a Friday night. He has pledged not to start any work there until the families of victims have been properly consulted.
Customers will instead drink in the beer garden, which will be covered with a plastic roof and have a new stage.
The roof of the area where the helicopter crashed has been repaired but the old stage and drinking area have been left untouched. The area has been sealed off.

Alan said: “What we have at the moment is a temporary solution before we decide how we move forward. Once we have the staff and punters back, we can look at what we do next.
“We will have to see how people feel about reopening that part of the Clutha. It’s not a decision that should be left to me.
“We also need to create a lasting memorial, possibly on the banks of the Clyde, for the victims’ families.”
Alan has invited the First Minister, families of the Clutha victims, survivors and rescue workers to a special reception before the pub reopens.
It will also feature music by Rose Room, the band who were due to play at the Clutha the afternoon after the accident.
Customers enter the Clutha via the refurbished Victoria Bar, which Prince Charles and Camilla visited on Wednesday.
On the wall of the corridor leading to the entrance of the beer garden is a chalk board with the names of the bands who played on the week of the Clutha crash.
 They include Esperanza, who were playing when the police helicopter crashed through the Clutha roof, and Rose Room,  who were due to play at 4pm the next day. 
Alan said: “This is a step forward for everyone. We’re static at the moment. We don’t know what the Air Accidents Investigation Branch report will say.
“At least this is a move forward in getting music played again in the Clutha. It is a start that will hopefully help some people.”

The businessman wanted to open on May 29, exactly 18 months after the helicopter crashed through the roof of the Clutha.
But building delays have meant it could be early next month before it opens. “It has been very frustrating,” he admitted.
Alan has been overwhelmed by public support for the pub opening its doors again.
He said: “So many people have told me they are looking forward to it reopening.
“Sometimes when I’m standing outside, drivers toot their horns or the fire brigade go by waving at me.”
 On his visit to the Clutha, Prince Charles expressed his concern at the time it was taking to complete the investigation into the police  helicopter crash. 
Pilot David Traill and police officers Kirsty Nelis and Tony Collins died in the crash on November 29, 2013.
Mark O’Prey, John McGarrigle, Gary Arthur, Colin Gibson, Robert Jenkins and Samuel McGhee were killed in the pub. Joe Cusker died later in hospital.
Last week, the Sunday Mail revealed that relatives were being denied access to a draft report by the Air Accidents Investigation Branch despite Police Scotland and other “interested parties” getting a copy months ago.
In February, the Sunday Mail revealed that Sturgeon had attacked the delays and silence surrounding the Clutha inquiry in a withering letter to David Cameron.
The Clutha, which has stood on the banks of the Clyde since the early 19th century, has hosted performances by the likes of Billy Connolly and Gerry Rafferty.
A huge mural has been painted on the outside of the pub of Connolly, Rafferty and other famous visitors such as Stan Laurel and Spike Milligan.
