A SCOTS family told how they watched in horror from their hotel room window as an Islamic State gunman executed their fellow holidaymakers.
Jim Stevenson, wife Karen, son Mitchell, 16, and Karen’s 85-year-old mum Nessie were staying at the Imperial Marhaba hotel in Sousse when Seifeddine Rezgui went on the rampage.
They barricaded themselves inside their room and watched as the terrorist gunned down 38 people, including at least 15 Britons.
They saw Rezgui shoot to kill with his Kalashnikov at point-blank range.
Jim, 51, and Mitchell were in their hotel room as the attack began and dashed down to get Karen and Nessie, who walks with a stick.
For three terrifying hours, they barricaded themselves in the room and used their mobile phones to film the scenes of panic as tourists fled in all directions.
Jim, a former production director who now runs a taxi, said: “My son’s a teenager so he was lying in his bed.
“My wife’s iPod had run out so I’d said I would take it up and charge it in the room, we’d get Mitchell and go for lunch.
“I was in the room and we just heard what sounded like a firecracker going off.
“My son said, ‘I know what that is from Call of Duty – that’s an AK47’.
“I said to him, ‘Don’t be so daft – it’s a firework or something’.
“I went out to the balcony and it was like World War Z – everybody was just running.
 “They weren’t running full pelt. It was as if they were being swept along and were asking themselves what it was they were  running from. 
“I saw the gunman who came up from the beach. He turned and shot an older lady who was coming down the stairs and she fell down dead.”
 

Jim and Mitchell’s first thought was for their loved ones on the beach. Jim said: “We went down to find my wife and my mother-in-law. They were sitting up not really taking in what had happened.
“There was a waiter with a tray of drinks who’d seen it all and basically threw down the tray and started running. He was telling everyone, ‘Run, run’.
“My wife grabbed my mother-in-law and they ran and made it into the hotel.
“We managed to get the four of us together. We grabbed a wee boy who was on his own and got to our room.
“The wee boy’s mum and brother had been hit by shrapnel from a grenade thrown I think by one of the attackers.
“We just grabbed every piece of furniture we could and shoved it up against the door and barricaded ourselves in.
“There were two easy chairs that were jammed in but we got them and tables and dressers and just piled it all up.
“My mother-in-law has a dead leg, she’s 85, but they managed to get a good start and were able to run up to the hotel.
“She can hardly walk but they managed to run somehow.”
 

The number of Britons killed in the attacks is expected to rise today after the Foreign Office warned they formed “the majority” of the 38 dead. The first British victim was named as newly engaged Carly Lovett, 24, from Gainsborough, Lincolnshire. She was on holiday with fiance Liam Moore.
Others included Adrian Evans, who worked for Sandwell Council in the West Midlands, and his nephew Joel Richards, 22.
Irish mother-of-two Lorna Carty, from Robinstown, Co Meath, was believed to have gone to the beach herself shortly before the shooting started.
Bruce Wilkinson, 72, from Goole, Humberside, was named last night as one of the dead.
Lisa Burbidge, from Whickham in Tyne and Wear, was also killed. Her death was confirmed by her son-in-law.
It remained unclear whether Rezgui – named as the killer by Islamic State as they claimed responsibility – had acted alone.
The Stevenson family were interviewed by police as they arrived back in Manchester yesterday before returning to their home in the south side of Glasgow.
Jim was able to supply a vital eyewitness account of Rezgui’s movements. He said he believed there were two, possibly three people involved.
Jim added: “He didn’t come right up the beach – he went along the beach.
“He went left to right. He then came round the left hand side of the pool.
“It didn’t sound anything like gunfire you heard in the movies.
“It was a total panic – everyone was running up from the beach up into the reception area.
“But then there was an attack from the reception back down the way.
“To me, it was organised. There was two of them, at least – probably three.”
The family eventually got out of the room after six soldiers came to the door.
Jim said: “They had a key but we’d barricaded ourselves in. We told them to go away and that we were fine.
“We were trying to get anything on the internet to find out if it was safe. We were seeing police snipers on the roof nearby.
“We thought maybe they had hit lots of hotels – but it was only ours.”
 

The family got to the airport in Tunisia about 2am yesterday and arrived in Manchester at about 10am. Jim said: “Police back in Manchester asked us about the gunmen, what they looked like and what they were wearing.
“Both my son and I think one of them was wearing khaki shorts. When he came to the pool he has shorts, T-shirt on, AK47 and long black hair. It was surreal.”
Cashier Karen, 49, said: “I’m glad to be back in Glasgow. We are very grateful at how quickly Thomson got us out. I am just so happy to be home.
“We must commend the hotel staff, Thomson and their rep. They were incredible.”
Maggie Crawshaw and her partner Jal Burt, from Comrie, Perthshire, were staying at the Royal Kenz hotel next door to the Imperial Marhaba.
The couple returned home in the early hours of yesterday. Maggie, 60, said: “People were still in shock.”
Cameron Barr, 21, of Prestwick, is staying at the nearby Marhaba Palace hotel with girlfriend Toni Gibson.
The support worker said: “Five minutes after it happened, everyone was scrambling about trying to get people around the pool and beach area inside but everyone was taking their time as nobody knew the seriousness of the situation.
“The water Zumba was on at the time and had music playing really loud.
“Once we knew, the hotel was put in lockdown and we’re not allowed to leave the hotel.”
Divers yesterday recovered a mobile phone after being told a gunman had tossed it into the sea before starting to shoot.
It will be examined by investigators for clues to possible accomplices.
Forty people, including 25 Britons, are being treated for injuries.
It’s understood five have already been released from hospital and some of those who suffered less serious injuries are believed to have already returned to the UK.

