Major in-town retail developments are putting pressure on traditional high streets and out-of-town shopping centres, a new report suggests.
Property consultants Colliers International said more than &pound;1 billion of expansion plans in Glasgow and Edinburgh alone are leaving “smaller retail centres limping towards a rates review” in two years' time.
Expansion of the Buchanan Galleries in Glasgow and St James Quarter in Edinburgh are estimated to represent around &pound;1.25 billion of investment.
The regional highlights from the Colliers latest Midsummer Retail Report suggests while Scotland's largest cities expand their retail dominance, “smaller retail centres continue to face pressures on rents and face two long years before the next rates revaluation finally takes post-recession values into account”.
Retail rates were due to be reviewed on April 1 2015, though the Scottish Government delayed the revaluation to April 1, 2017.
Colliers said a 2015 rate review would have meant retailers rate bills “would have not been based on pre-recessionary levels of 1 April 2008”.
Peter Muir, head of rating with Colliers International in Scotland, said: “There is no doubt that retail sector in particular has suffered in a sharp decline in headline rentals, in particular the outlying parts of the established city centres of Glasgow, Edinburgh and Aberdeen.
“Traditional High Streets in provincial towns continue to decline, a particular example being Paisley, which is showing an average reduction in rental levels of 54 per cent between 2008 and 2015.
“Other towns include Ayr, down 35 per cent, and Falkirk's 33 per cent fall. Scotland as a total averaged a decline of 23 per cent.”
John Duffy, director of in-town retail with Colliers International in Scotland, said in-town retailers continue to be highly selective on pitch, store, size, configuration and the nature of a property deal, and he notes some retail chains are still looking for Scottish stores, including Victoria’s Secret and American Eagle.
He said: “Evidence of the strengthening in-town retail market is the real progress being made on the significant redevelopment of Buchanan Galleries in Glasgow and the St James Quarter in Edinburgh.
“The key driver is an improving retail market, with significant pre-lets for the Buchanan Galleries extension to the likes of M&amp;S and Next, as well as a ten-screen cinema by Showcase Cinema de Lux.”
He added: “It’s a challenge to landlords and developers to react to the known requirements and deliver the demanded space for these prized retailers.”
Colliers latest report suggests Scotland's strongest retail parks are also “continuing to evolve”, with landlords reported to be “competing aggressively to attract the most diverse range of retail and leisure operators”.
However, the dominance of flagship retail parks like Glasgow Fort and Fort Kinnaird in Edinburgh, is “arguably to the detriment of some of the more secondary retail parks often with a ‘bulkier’ occupier line up in inferior locations”.
Chris Humphrey, director of out-of- town retail with Colliers, said: “Many of these first and second generations parks will have to look for alternative uses, such as trade counter or industrial to bring them back into full occupation.
“Occupation levels for OOT [out of town] is arguably less of a problem than it is in secondary shopping centres and High Streets.”

