BOXING legend Jim Watt has been devastated by the death of his TV star daughter Michelle – the second of his three children to die.
The popular presenter, 38, died suddenly at her home. It’s the latest family tragedy to hit the former world champion, after one of his sons, Jim junior, was killed in a horror road smash in October 1995 aged just 17.
Michelle passed away on Wednesday night at the luxury home in Airth, Stirlingshire, she shared with her car sales manager husband Paul Kerr, 43, and their five-year-old daughter, Jaymi, who was named in memory of her late uncle.
Jim’s daughter became a well-known figure in her own right after presenting a string of TV shows, including STV’s The Hour, 60 Minute Makeover and Club Cupid.
She also wrote a regular newspaper column.
 

Jim and his wife Margaret, who live in Kirkintilloch, near Glasgow, were too upset to speak about their heartbreak last night.
But tributes poured in from Michelle’s showbiz friends.
Comedian Des Clarke, who co-hosted Scots dating show Club Cupid with her, told of his devastation at the news.
He described her as a true professional who had “an infectious personality and was always smiling” and said she “lit up every room”.
The Daily Record columnist and Capital FM DJ said: “It’s so sad. My memories of Michelle are just all so happy.
“We presented Club Cupid together and we would go up to Dundee together every weekend and try to matchmake all these brilliantly random people from all over Scotland and have such a giggle with each other all the way up.
“We’d hang out with one another and were in and out of each other’s pockets.
“I remember her being a great people person and I clicked with her right away.
 

“She was just really fun to be around and such a lovely, genuine person and so hardworking.
“I’d be at the carry on and she would be professional but the more I got to know her, the more I’d make her laugh.
“I never remember her having a bad day. She was a beautiful-looking girl and so full of joy.
“We worked so well because we were brilliant opposites.
“She was a true professional and I was the joker, the daftie.
“It didn’t matter what time of day I’d see her, first thing in the morning or last thing at night, she was so glam – and I’d turn up in T-shirts and scruffy jeans and old trainers.
“We kept in touch after that and I met Paul, her husband, quite a few times.
“He’s a great guy and they were a lovely couple and I have nothing but fond things to say.
 

“She was a big personality. This news is just a total shock.
“I’m devastated. I’m actually still shaking. My heart goes out to the family and her friends.
“It’s a really sad day and not having her smile around is a loss.
“People who knew her knew that she lit up every room – and that light has now gone out. I can’t believe it.”
Make-up expert Craig Alexander Wilson was also full of praise for Michelle’s professionalism.
He said: “To hear this is devastating.
“Michelle was easy to work with and a real professional who had a zest for life.
“She loved her industry, was very committed to her family and husband, and I know she was the apple of her father’s eye.
 

“I worked with her a couple of years ago. She loved beauty products and that’s where our connection started.
 “She was fun-loving and energetic and always spoke with her dad – the  closeness about their relationship was evident. I know she was his No1 fan. 
“I can’t imagine how the family are feeling. I’m totally stuck for words. It’s taken the wind out my sails and my thoughts are with the family.”
 Former Radio Clyde DJ Adrian Coll added: “I’m totally shocked. Michelle was as beautiful on the inside as she was on the outside. 
“She made you feel at ease right from the start and was such a lovely person.
“I met her at an event I was hosting, and she was judging it, and we kept in contact.
“She always seemed really happy and was always glamorous.
“My heart goes out to the family. I can’t imagine how they are feeling, particularly after she lost her wee brother.”
 

Jim, 66, who has another son, Andrew, 45, only spoke publicly for the first time about the death of Jim junior in 2010.
He told Radio Scotland’s Stuff of Legends: “It was the lowest point of my life. You shouldn’t bury your children – your children should bury you.
“It was a horrendous time, I wouldn’t wish it on my worst enemy. It was just terrible and tragic.”
Jim took up boxing aged 14. The southpaw was 31 when he won the WBC lightweight crown against Colombian Alfredo Pitalua in 1979.
After retiring from the ring, he became a commentator for ITV before moving to Sky Sports in 1996, where he remains a pundit and co-commentator.
As well as losing two of his children, Jim also suffered the early loss of his father when he was only five.
 

 Police Scotland yesterday confirmed Michelle’s death. 
A spokeswoman said there were no suspicious circumstances.
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

