 THE steaks were raw, the griddle pan burst into flames, the smoke alarm went off and they put  fine red wine in the ice bucket. 
Culinary couple Cat Ure and Martin Langer thought they’d flamb&eacute;ed any chance of winning Come Dine With Me after their kitchen nightmare.
And their four-year relationship nearly went up in smoke with it.
 Producers believe the couple’s spectacular meltdown is one of the most explosive ever seen on the  notoriously emotional show 
On Tuesday, viewers will see the couple, from Bonnybridge, near Falkirk, lose the plot while filming the Channel 4 cookery series.
The final scenes of the dinner party disaster show Cat, sitting in her back garden, quietly weeping that she wanted her mum.
But the drama didn’t end there.
Club promoter, Cat, 31, said: “Martin and I didn’t speak for a fortnight afterwards. I slept in the spare room. I wondered whether we should even stay together.
“I couldn’t believe how horrible I’d been to Martin. I even phoned his mum and said, ‘I know you’ll tell him to dump me when this show comes out.’
“Come Dine With Me could have split us up.
“Martin had to sit me down and say, “Let’s never do anything like that again.’
“So we’ve decided against applying for Don’t Tell the Bride.”
Amateur chef Cat and DJ boyfriend Martin are one of three Scots couples to battle it out for the star prize in the couples version of the hit culinary reality show.
Their night kicked off well when the starter of grilled halloumi cheese with smoked venison, pear and basil was met by appreciative nods from their competitors, two couples from Glasgow.
Gill, an outreach manager, her accountant hubby Mark, restaurant manager Matt and his partner Derek, a flight attendant, were looking forward to a main course that was even more impressive.
But things began to go wrong when Cat discovered the c&Ocirc;te de boeuf she’d prepared was so undercooked it almost had a pulse.
She said: “It was bright red and bloody inside and I started to panic.
“I thought we could salvage it by slicing it and cooking it on the griddle pan but Martin handed me a plate and it was just fat, no meat. I was losing it.
“I tried to put some oil in the pan and it caught fire so the smoke alarm went off and everything was going mad.
“I was shouting at Martin to fan the smoke away. But the moment I flipped was when I asked for the expensive bottle of red wine I’d bought, knowing two of the guests were wine connoisseurs, and Martin said he’d put it in the ice bucket.”
 The other contestants, waiting patiently in the dining room, were treated to the full force of Cat’s  meltdown before she stormed out of the back door, demanding the filming was stopped. 
Production staff managed to calm her down enough to continue with the meal and the couple did rustle up an impressive dessert of strawberry cobbler with mango sorbet and rosewater cream.
Cat said: “The others were so lovely. They said they wouldn’t have realised there was a problem if it wasn’t for the shouting and the smoke alarm.
“They said the food was good but might have said something different on camera. I’ll find out on Tuesday.”
After a couple of weeks giving each other the cold shoulder, Cat and Martin have been able to rekindle the flames of love and their relationship is back simmering nicely.
 They are even able to laugh about their TV mishap and are preparing to be char-grilled by the show’s  scathing voiceover man, Dave Lamb. 
Cat said: “I’ve been told by people working on the programme it’s the second worst meltdown they’ve ever had on the show.
 “It’s only topped by the episode where the woman opening the results found out she’d come last  and marched off to her bed. 
“I suppose mine was the worst to actually take place in the kitchen then.
“I’m not bothered though. Martin says anyone who sees it is just going to think that I’m nuts. And I am.
“No one who knows me is going to be in the least surprised.”
