A SCOTS couple killed in Tunisia had only booked the holiday at the last minute.
Jim McQuire, 66, and wife Ann, 63, were due to fly home tomorrow to attend the Queen’s Garden Party in Edinburgh.
The devoted couple were among 38 people killed by a gunman in the resort of Sousse.
Their friend Marjory Williamson revealed that Ann and Jim, who had recently retired, had gone to Tunisia on a late deal.
She added: “They were enjoying life so much.
“The holiday was booked just a week in advance and they said they loved having the freedom to do that now Jim is retired.”
Former engineer Jim and Ann flew to Tunisia from Glasgow last Sunday.
They were both shot on the beach. Ann died on the spot and Jim passed away in hospital shortly afterwards.

The couple, who leave a son, Stuart, 32, were invited to Wednesday’s garden party at the Palace of Holyroodhouse after a lifetime of commitment to the Church of Scotland and Jim’s many years as a Boys’ Brigade captain.
 

They also did community and charity work in Glasgow’s east end, where they were from originally.
Marjory, 71, said the couple, who lived in Cumbernauld, were devoted to each other.
She added: “Jim and Ann were loving their retirement.
“Jim was a keen hillwalker and Ann had taken a wee part-time job in a medical lab in Coatbridge after working for many years as a medical receptionist.”
BB captain Andrew Eadie, 67, said: “Jim texted me to say he was in Tunisia and that he would be back early on Monday to get ready for the garden party.
“I got the call from Marjory late on Saturday. I didn’t want to believe it.”
The couple were regulars at Abronhill Church, where Jim was captain of the 5th Cumbernauld BB company.

Prayers were said for him and Ann at yesterday’s morning service.
The Rev Joyce Keyes said: “This is very emotional. They were very active in the church. Jim was an elder.
“They were a very young retired couple. They were enjoying the opportunity just to take off on holiday.
“They were devoted to each other.”
The couple’s neighbours were also in shock.
David Wharton, 53, said: “When I heard the news, I sat and cried all night.
“They were lovely. Jim came in and fixed my frozen pipes and you would always see him in the garden.
“To think this loving couple are not coming home is incomprehensible.”
 

 David’s wife Lynn Ann, 43, said: “Jim was skipper at all levels of the BBs  and was captain to our son Jamie, who is nine and in the Anchor Boys. 
“It is very difficult for children to take in because there is no explanation as to why.”
Another neighbour, Margaret Peet, 77, said: “ I’m broken-hearted. They will be sorely missed here.”
Marjory said the couple were considerate to everyone.
She added: “They were extremely kind and helpful. I had an accident last year and Jim and Ann were on the scene right away and came to hospital with me.”
Jim retired last year from BAE’s Scotstoun shipyard, where he worked on newly launched vessels.
Ann sang and she and Jim both played guitar. They played in a folk band called the Tartan Spirits.
The couple’s son Stuart, who married Nicola in October, was too upset to talk about the tragedy.
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

