“WHAT DOES JULY 1 MEAN?” asks Micky Yule to himself, almost absently, checking his mental calendar. “It’s Wednesday. It means I’m training in Loughborough.”
To his mum, his wife, his family,  his mates, it means something  else entirely.
It’s the day five years ago a son, a husband, a dad, a pal, stepped on a pressure-plate IED in Helmand  Province, Afghanistan, and had his  life blown apart.
One leg amputated by the blast, the other from one of 40-odd surgeries he had to go through in the aftermath.
His memory of the Chinook rotors above his head coming to airlift him home still echo in his mind.
These days, though? The 36-year-old doesn’t do sentimentality. Doesn’t  have the time. Nor the inclination. Fifth anniversary or not.
He’s too busy staring at the  ‘Auriverde’ above his head in his garage gym, the Brazilian flag he put there a year ago to remind him every day of the dream he’s chasing.
Considering what the former Royal Engineers staff sergeant has been through, the fact he still has a reason to get up in the morning is incredible in itself.
But the powerlifter’s desire to reach the Paralympics in Rio drives him daily. It’s pushing him like an unseen force, especially since the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow last summer gave him a taste for the atmosphere, the adulation, the adrenalin.

With three of the four qualifying events to come, and gold in the locker from his first in Mexico, Yule is more focused than ever.
“That flag in my garage,” he says, “That’s what I look at every day. Every time I’m slacking, I look up and have a wee word with myself.
“It’s definitely a driver. I’ve no time to think about other stuff.
“I look at my training programme and I think ‘S***! How am I ever going to get through it? THAT’LL kill me!’

“You don’t have time to get caught up in all the ‘What ifs’. I’d actually  forgotten but just thinking about it now, it’ll be five years on Wednesday since I stood on that IED. My mum thinks about it more than me.
“But ask me now what July 1 means and the only reason it means anything to me is how well I do in training to take me to where I’m going, not where I’ve been.”
Yule became one of many Team  Scotland icons last summer at the  Glasgow Games, his story of human endurance capturing the Scottish  public’s hearts and minds.
Allied to the words, though, was an image. A glistening, tattooed torso captured against the brutal industrial backdrop of a Glasgow shipyard, the futuristic alloy of his prosthetics a striking counterpoint to the century-old steel around him.
It was one of a series of stunning Games images by photographer Al Devine, Yule grinned: “He nailed it, didn’t he? Which is just as well, mind.
 
“I’m just a squaddie, right, and he’s there telling me to take my top off and spraying me with stuff in the middle of a shift change in a shipyard. I’m like ‘Nae chance!

“The photographer is giving it ‘This’ll be brilliant, trust me’. As soon as he showed me the picture on his camera, I saw what he meant.
“The whole experience in Glasgow was unbelievable. You’re trying to  picture how it’s going to be and  then when you turn up it just blows your mind.
“It exceeded every expectation. At the opening ceremony at Celtic Park you’re outside thinking ‘That’s some reception everyone is getting’.
“Then when we walked in it was just madness. What a feeling to have the whole country behind you.”
While his fourth place finish in  Glasgow was a disappointment, Yule was competing with a muscle injury and in a weight category that saw him lifting against guys with as much as a six-stone advantage over him.
Micky laughed: “I could have boiled down and been the heaviest guy in the light group or just be the lightest guy in the heavy group.
“I remember sitting next to the  Nigerian and Malaysian competitors thinking ‘Was this a good idea?’
“But you just get on with it. I had a nightmare build-up but right now I’m as fit as I’ll ever be and ready.”
The qualifying process for Rio is strict. With four events in Mexico, Kazakhstan, Hungary and Malaysia before February, only the top eight in the world will be Brazil bound.
 

Gold in Mexico got him off to a flier, but Yule shrugged: “It sounds brilliant, but my competition is from places like China, Russia, Nigeria – and they’ll all be in Kazakhstan in five weeks.”
Yule is training full-time now, thanks to National Lottery funding.
He splits his time between the Team GB camp at Loughborough and a week with his Scottish coach at Edinburgh University every six weeks.
His programme is relentless, leaving little time for dwelling on the past  horrors he endured. Every now and then, however, his body issues little reminders for him.
Yule said: “Sometimes I get phantom pains – like pins and needles.
“Six weeks ago, I got this feeling and it lasted for about two weeks,
“Your brain sometimes just decides to send some signals to see if your feet are still there. I had 31 years with feet, and then you don’t. And your brain sometimes just isn’t prepared to accept that and decides to test you out.
“You can take medication for it but that would send me radge – the quicker you can get off the medication, you do it. Not everyone can, but I can’t afford to feel tired or anything like that when I’m chasing what I’m chasing. So I just get on with it, beast through it.”
 ■ Micky is one of 1,300 athletes funded by The National Lottery so they can train full-time and access world-class coaching and support. 
 As well as funding the Road to Rio athletes, every week National Lottery players raise over &pound;34m for good causes in Scotland and the UK. For more details see..lotterygoodcauses.org.uk

