 AS the country teetered on the edge of Thatcherism, four young friends from Glasgow were building a legacy symbolising all she despised. 
Far from her dream of no society, they formed a workers’ co-operative built on the core principles of democracy, equality, self-management and the promotion of community.
 That was 1978 and 37 years on, Thatcher is dead and Greencity Wholefoods are flourishing in Scotland, expanding in the middle of recession, with an annual turnover of &pound;6million. 
The four were Sara McCann, then 21, Giles Boddington, 26, her then partner, his 20 year-old sister Phillida and her husband Nick Fleming, 24.
Giles said: “We were looking for something to do together and we were all in to wholefoods. We heard about workers’ co-ops and thought that the idea fitted perfectly with our political views.”
The four were pioneers, helping establishing the organic health food market at the height of the chip pan’s popularity, when no one had heard of quinoa, let alone how to pronounce it (keen-wah).
With &pound;4000 from their savings, they opened the Grassroots health food store in Glasgow’s west end. In the first year, employee numbers grew from the original four to 12 and turnover was just over &pound;200,000.
Leaving Grassroots in the ownership of their workers, they formed Greencity, as a wholesalers, who are now based in the city’s Dennistoun.
They found other co-operatives and traded with them. They milled their own flour, bottled their own olive oil and started manufacturing as well as selling.
 

Looking back, Giles admits that the ethos of running a business on consensus, was at times a “nightmare” of endless meetings.
Each founder ultimately left to pursue other avenues and Giles now runs a business using horses as a means of therapy for children.
Giles said: “It really informed me on how to do business and it is really important to give people responsibilty and allow them to develop.
“You also have to be prepared to be disappointed at times.
“I am hugely proud of what we created. After all this time it is still there, with the same ethos, and that is an achievement.”
Greencity now employ around 40 people and their turnover is increasing by an average of 10 per cent per year.
In the canteen, where every “member” gets free breakfast and lunch each day, Babs McGregor talks enthusiastically about the co-operative she joined in 2000.
Babs said: “We are growing as opposed to surviving, so we are bucking the trend. Our market is a growing market.
“The difference between us and a normal company is that we run it ourselves and have our own tiers of management but none of our profit goes to absent shareholders, it comes to us and we decide what to do with it.”
The structure is different in a workers’ co-operative. There is a manager for each team – like the drivers, warehouse workers, sales reps and the finance department – and they are nominated by the workers themselves.
Babs said: “Otherwise you wouldn’t get any respect.”
There are regular team meetings and, four times a year, there are general meetings. The workforce is still small enough to use a show of hands for decisions. A full member of the co-op has full voting rights.
Babs said: “That open flow of dialogue is always going round. We are implementing new computer systems and we are all involved at varying levels.”
 

The managers are not paid more than other staff – there’s a flat wage structure of &pound;9.50 an hour.
The company carry the radical ethos of equal pay and equal say.
The wage is reasonable for the sector but there are also profit share bonuses and perks.
The team at Greencity are a diverse bunch and some have been hunt saboteurs or animal rights campaigners. Their mascot is a Staffie called Clyde.
 They supply to hotels, delis, restaurants and even schools and they have a lucrative contract with North Ayrshire Council, supplying organic healthy foods. 
Heath food is now on trend and the backlash against supermarkets has gathered momentum.
But foods like quinoa can be problematic for companies such as Greencity who will only buy fairtrade and ethically produced food.
The Peruvian grain, once a staple for the poor of Peru and Bolivia, is in such demand its cost has become prohibitive there.
Greencity source their quinoa from a fairtrade company in Bolivia, who limit the impact on the locals but they also buy from a grower in Essex.
Greencity helped drive forward Glasgow’s decision to become fairtrade.
Babs said: “Our buying policy is very tight. If we hear stories that question the ethics of a product, we will investigate.”
The company stopped selling a particular sea salt when they discovered the Israeli producers were supporting illegal settlements in the West Bank.
When family firm Rachel’s Dairy were bought over by Nestle, Greencity stopped stocking it.
 

Babs said: “We had to take a hit there. It is one of the best brands of organic yoghurt but we couldn’t really have held our head up high if we continued to stock Nestle.
“We have to work hard sourcing products.”
They also help in the community, sponsoring a female football team, donating to the food bank and the UNITE women’s shelter.
Workers have a nine-month probation period to make sure that they fit in.
She said: “We are looking for that extra something. They need to be able to do the job but they also have to be a good co-operative member and a lot of that is being able to see the bigger part of the business, not their only little section.”
Greencity help pay for childcare and contribute to supporting children until they reach 16.
There have been disputes with workers but only a couple over the last 37 years and staff turnover is exceptionally low.
Babs said: “We want Greencity to do well, not just for us but because it is good for Scotland to have a company like ours.”
 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

