EXTRA anti-terror measures were taken for Armed Forces Day as the UK was put on a full security alert yesterday.
There was a heightened police &shy;presence to ensure the safety of &shy;participants and crowds at veterans’ parades across Scotland.
It came as Scotland Yard confirmed a plot to bomb an Armed Forces march in south London had been foiled last week.
The parade was targeted by Islamic State because it was closest to the &shy;barracks in Woolwich where 25-year-old fusilier Lee Rigby was murdered by &shy;extremists in 2013.
Security was also heightened at the Gay Pride march in the centre of London, which attracted around 30,000 &shy;revellers.
Extra measures will be in place &shy;tomorrow for the start of Wimbledon.
The country’s threat level for &shy;international terrorism was assessed as severe, meaning an attack is highly likely.
It’s one level below critical when an attack is believed to be imminent.
In Edinburgh yesterday, anti-terror officers carried out a search of drains for explosives along the Armed Forces Day march route in the centre of the city.
They used sniffer dogs to search phone boxes and even lifted paving stones.
 

There was also a heightened police &shy;presence in Glasgow, where First &shy;Minister Nicola Sturgeon attended an event.
Parades in the country’s two biggest cities and in Inverness, Paisley, Stranraer and Dundee all passed &shy;without incident, as did events in &shy;England and Wales.
But the intense security measures are likely to be a sign of things to come over the summer.
IS have warned that the holy month of Ramadan will have “lots of surprises” and said Muslims who targeted &shy;non-believers would be rewarded &shy;tenfold in the afterlife.
Police have been warned not to wear their uniforms in public when off-duty and told not to tell strangers what they do for a living.
The advice follows similar guidance given to British soldiers not to wear their uniform outside barracks or reveal they’re in the Armed Forces.
Police Scotland would not say &shy;yesterday what security measures were being taken north of the &shy;Border.
A spokesman added: “Police &shy;Scotland officers are not currently travelling to Tunisia. This matter is being handled by the Foreign and &shy;Commonwealth Office and we are in close liaison with them.”
 

Ex-serious crime squad detective Gerry Gallacher – who investigated both loyalist and republican terrorists groups active in Scotland – said: “The fact that the threat level nationally is severe shows that the security services believe that a &shy;terrorist attack by IS is in the offing. It is clear that IS are using Ramadan to launch a fresh terrorist offensive. The &shy;murder of Lee Rigby shows how random and haphazard these terrorist attacks can be and that they can come from nowhere.
“The police have been very successful in foiling IS attacks in Britain using intelligence, but groups like IS are also learning from their mistakes.
“The police will also want the public to be on their guard over the next few weeks, to be their eyes and ears and to report any suspicious behaviour to them.”
A Scotland Yard spokesman said: “The police, together with our security partners, remain alert to terrorist threats that may manifest here or where individuals overseas may seek to direct or inspire others to commit attacks in and against the UK.”
Scotland Yard confirmed yesterday that security was being stepped up at &shy;Wimbledon for the two-week tournament.
Upgraded security measures included the deployment of extra officers, increased road closures and a “highly mobile reserve” team to respond to &shy;intelligence.
Chief Superintendent Stuart Macleod, the local commander, said: “This year’s event will be policed to a level proportionate with the current threat level.” The main Armed Forces Day event took place in Guildford, Surrey, attended by Prime &shy;Minister David Cameron and involved a parade of more than 900 service personnel, veterans and cadets.
Prince Andrew took the salute on the parade route on behalf of the Queen and royal family, as the Red Arrows staged a fly-past.
Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley, national policing lead for &shy;counter terrorism, said: “There’s an independent body of experts who assess the threat and they’re keeping it at severe.
“That is a very significant level.
“There have been a handful of plots near to commission that have been foiled and many more plots, where people have had the &shy;aspiration, where we’ve disrupted them early in their plans and their thinking.”
He urged the public to be “vigilant” and urged anyone with information about terrorism to contact the police.
Domestic terror arrests increased by almost a third last year, as police and religious leaders try to halt the number of people joining Islamic extremists in Syria.
There were 289 arrests for terrorism-related offences during 2014, an increase of 30 per cent on the previous year.
 An estimated 700 Britons are believed to have fled to join Islamic militants, including three sisters and their nine children who  left their homes in Bradford earlier this month. 

