  McHugh 79′, 86′  
 Bob McHugh scored two late goals as Airdrieonians maintained their faint Scottish League One promotion play-off hopes by beating Ayr United. 
 Ross Docherty headed wide for the hosts and then Jordan Morton was denied by Ayr goalkeeper David Hutton before McHugh made the breakthrough. 
 He converted Scott Fraser's pass and the two combined again before the end. 
 This time, Fraser crossed for McHugh to head home and ensure Ayr slipped into the relegation play-off spot. 
 Airdrie sit six points below the promotion play-off zone. 
    Full Time  Match ends, Airdrieonians 2, Ayr United 0. 
    Full Time  Second Half ends, Airdrieonians 2, Ayr United 0. 
 Corner, Airdrieonians. Conceded by Peter Murphy. 
 Attempt missed. Jon Paul McGovern (Ayr United) right footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high. 
 Corner, Airdrieonians. Conceded by Nicky Devlin. 
 Foul by Bryan Prunty (Airdrieonians). 
 Peter Murphy (Ayr United) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Airdrieonians. Liam Watt replaces Scott Fraser. 
 Attempt saved. Alan Forrest (Ayr United) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. 
  Goal!  Goal! Airdrieonians 2, Ayr United 0. Robert McHugh (Airdrieonians) header from the centre of the box to the top right corner. Assisted by Scott Fraser. 
 Jamie Bain (Airdrieonians) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Jordan Preston (Ayr United). 
  Substitution  Substitution, Ayr United. Alan Forrest replaces Brian Gilmour. 
 Attempt missed. Robert McHugh (Airdrieonians) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses the top right corner from a direct free kick. 
 Scott Gray (Airdrieonians) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Scott McKenna (Ayr United). 
  Goal!  Goal! Airdrieonians 1, Ayr United 0. Robert McHugh (Airdrieonians) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom right corner. Assisted by Scott Fraser. 
 Corner, Ayr United. Conceded by Chris O'Neil. 
 Scott Fraser (Airdrieonians) hits the left post with a right footed shot from outside the box. 
 Corner, Airdrieonians. Conceded by David Hutton. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Airdrieonians. Scott Gray replaces Jordan Morton. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Ayr United. Robbie Crawford replaces Craig Beattie. 
  Booking  Liam Lindsay (Airdrieonians) is shown the yellow card. 
 Foul by Liam Lindsay (Airdrieonians). 
 Craig Beattie (Ayr United) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt missed. Brian Gilmour (Ayr United) left footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Corner, Airdrieonians. Conceded by Scott McKenna. 
 Attempt missed. Ryan Nisbet (Ayr United) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Attempt missed. Bryan Prunty (Airdrieonians) right footed shot from the right side of the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Ross Docherty (Airdrieonians) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Jon Paul McGovern (Ayr United). 
  Substitution  Substitution, Ayr United. Ryan Nisbet replaces Adam Blakeman. 
 Attempt saved. Jordan Morton (Airdrieonians) right footed shot from long range on the left is saved in the bottom right corner. 
 Corner, Ayr United. Conceded by Luca Gasparotto. 
 Attempt blocked. Craig Beattie (Ayr United) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. 
 Foul by Liam Lindsay (Airdrieonians). 
 Adam Blakeman (Ayr United) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Marc Fitzpatrick (Airdrieonians) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Jon Paul McGovern (Ayr United). 
 Attempt missed. Craig Beattie (Ayr United) right footed shot from the left side of the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Attempt missed. Ross Docherty (Airdrieonians) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Attempt saved. Brian Gilmour (Ayr United) right footed shot from more than 35 yards is saved in the centre of the goal. 
   Second Half begins Airdrieonians 0, Ayr United 0. 
    Half Time  First Half ends, Airdrieonians 0, Ayr United 0. 
 Attempt blocked. Ross Docherty (Airdrieonians) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. 
 Corner, Ayr United. Conceded by Jamie Bain. 
 Attempt missed. Adam Blakeman (Ayr United) left footed shot from outside the box is too high. 
 Corner, Airdrieonians. Conceded by Adam Blakeman. 
 Scott Fraser (Airdrieonians) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Adam Blakeman (Ayr United). 
 Attempt missed. Jordan Preston (Ayr United) right footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high. 
 Foul by Ross Docherty (Airdrieonians). 
 Brian Gilmour (Ayr United) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt saved. Peter Murphy (Ayr United) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. 
 Corner, Ayr United. Conceded by Chris O'Neil. 
 Corner, Airdrieonians. Conceded by Michael Donald. 
 Corner, Airdrieonians. Conceded by Nicky Devlin. 
 Bryan Prunty (Airdrieonians) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Scott McKenna (Ayr United). 
 Corner, Ayr United. Conceded by Liam Lindsay. 
 Corner, Ayr United. Conceded by Luca Gasparotto. 
 Foul by Jamie Bain (Airdrieonians). 
 Craig Beattie (Ayr United) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt blocked. Scott Fraser (Airdrieonians) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked. 
 Scott Fraser (Airdrieonians) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Adam Blakeman (Ayr United). 
 Attempt saved. Bryan Prunty (Airdrieonians) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Robert McHugh (Airdrieonians) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Peter Murphy (Ayr United). 
 Peter Murphy (Ayr United) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Jordan Morton (Airdrieonians). 
 Attempt saved. Jordan Morton (Airdrieonians) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Foul by Ross Docherty (Airdrieonians). 
 Nicky Devlin (Ayr United) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
   First Half begins. 
 Lineups are announced and players are warming up. 
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
