  Murray 25′  
  Burns 90′  
 Queen's Park will have to settle for second place in League Two after they dropped points at Arbroath and allowed Albion Rovers to win the title. 
 The Spiders had to win to keep their faint hopes alive but fell behind when Simon Murray tucked in a cross from Kieran McWalter. 
 Robert Linn threatened a second, his free-kick kept out by Willie Muir. 
 Sean Burns struck to level matters in stoppage time but there was to be no winner. 
 And Rovers built up an unassailable lead and automatic promotion by beating Clyde 3-2. 
    Full Time  Match ends, Arbroath 1, Queen's Park 1. 
    Full Time  Second Half ends, Arbroath 1, Queen's Park 1. 
 Foul by Simon Murray (Arbroath). 
 Sean Burns (Queen's Park) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
  Goal!  Goal! Arbroath 1, Queen's Park 1. Sean Burns (Queen's Park) left footed shot from outside the box to the bottom right corner. 
 Dangerous play by Simon Murray (Arbroath). 
 Bryan Wharton (Queen's Park) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Keiran Stewart (Arbroath) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Ross McPherson (Queen's Park). 
 Foul by Bobby Linn (Arbroath). 
 Sean Burns (Queen's Park) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Keiran Stewart (Arbroath) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Ciaran McElroy (Queen's Park). 
 Foul by Bryan Wharton (Queen's Park). 
 Scott McBride (Arbroath) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Ciaran McElroy (Queen's Park). 
 Mark Whatley (Arbroath) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Ross McPherson (Queen's Park). 
 Ricky Little (Arbroath) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Corner, Queen's Park. Conceded by Liam Gordon. 
  Booking  Scott McBride (Arbroath) is shown the yellow card. 
 (Arbroath) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by John Carter (Queen's Park). 
 Corner, Arbroath. Conceded by Sean Burns. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Queen's Park. Jordan Moore replaces Vincent Berry. 
 Foul by Liam Gordon (Arbroath). 
 Ross McPherson (Queen's Park) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Attempt saved. Simon Murray (Arbroath) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Craig Johnstone (Arbroath) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Paul Woods (Queen's Park). 
  Substitution  Substitution, Queen's Park. Ross McPherson replaces Gavin Mitchell. 
 Foul by Craig Johnstone (Arbroath). 
 Tony Quinn (Queen's Park) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Simon Murray (Arbroath) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Vincent Berry (Queen's Park). 
 Attempt saved. Bobby Linn (Arbroath) right footed shot from long range on the left is saved in the bottom right corner. 
 Craig Johnstone (Arbroath) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
  Booking  Gavin Mitchell (Queen's Park) is shown the yellow card. 
 Foul by Gavin Mitchell (Queen's Park). 
 Foul by Kevin Nicoll (Arbroath). 
 Conor McVey (Queen's Park) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Simon Murray (Arbroath) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Sean Burns (Queen's Park). 
 Foul by Scott McBride (Arbroath). 
 Gavin Mitchell (Queen's Park) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
   Second Half begins Arbroath 1, Queen's Park 0. 
    Half Time  First Half ends, Arbroath 1, Queen's Park 0. 
 Kevin Nicoll (Arbroath) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Ciaran McElroy (Queen's Park). 
 Hand ball by Gavin Mitchell (Queen's Park). 
 Foul by Kieran McWalter (Arbroath). 
 John Carter (Queen's Park) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Attempt saved. Ciaran McElroy (Queen's Park) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. 
  Goal!  Goal! Arbroath 1, Queen's Park 0. Simon Murray (Arbroath) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom right corner. Assisted by Kieran McWalter. 
 Foul by Kevin Nicoll (Arbroath). 
 Patrick Slattery (Queen's Park) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Corner, Arbroath. Conceded by William Muir. 
 Attempt saved. Bobby Linn (Arbroath) left footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Patrick Slattery (Queen's Park) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Keiran Stewart (Arbroath). 
 Sean Burns (Queen's Park) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Simon Murray (Arbroath). 
  Substitution  Substitution, Queen's Park. Conor McVey replaces Shaun Rooney because of an injury. 
 Vincent Berry (Queen's Park) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Craig Johnstone (Arbroath). 
 Foul by Patrick Slattery (Queen's Park). 
 Keiran Stewart (Arbroath) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
   First Half begins. 
 Lineups are announced and players are warming up. 
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
