  McCluskey 53′  McManus 59′  
 Greenock Morton moved up to second in Scottish League One with victory over relegated Stirling Albion. 
 Morton almost took the lead when Stirling keeper Cammy Binnie pushed a Mark Russell shot onto the bar and Ross Caldwell headed the loose ball over. 
 But Jamie McCluskey was successful on the rebound in the second half an initial header had been cleared off the line. 
 And Declan McManus ran clear to slot home the visitors'' second. 
 Morton trail new leaders Stranaer by a point with two games to go. 
    Full Time  Match ends, Stirling Albion 0, Morton 2. 
    Full Time  Second Half ends, Stirling Albion 0, Morton 2. 
 Corner, Morton. Conceded by Ross Forsyth. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Morton. Peter MacDonald replaces Jamie McCluskey. 
 Foul by Sandy Cunningham (Stirling Albion). 
 Lee Kilday (Morton) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Greg Hurst (Stirling Albion) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Ricki Lamie (Morton). 
 Attempt saved. Andy Stirling (Stirling Albion) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Attempt missed. Kevin McKinlay (Stirling Albion) left footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the right. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Stirling Albion. Jordan Sinclair replaces Gordon Smith. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Stirling Albion. Greg Hurst replaces Chris Paton. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Stirling Albion. Sandy Cunningham replaces Philip Johnston. 
 Foul by Thomas O'Ware (Morton). 
 (Stirling Albion) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Corner, Morton. Conceded by Ross McGeachie. 
 Attempt missed. Jamie McCluskey (Morton) right footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Stefan McCluskey (Morton) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Chris Paton (Stirling Albion). 
 Declan McManus (Morton) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Angus Beith (Stirling Albion). 
 Corner, Morton. Conceded by Ross Forsyth. 
 Attempt saved. Chris Paton (Stirling Albion) right footed shot from long range on the right is saved in the centre of the goal. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Morton. Thomas O'Ware replaces Ross Caldwell. 
  Goal!  Goal! Stirling Albion 0, Morton 2. Declan McManus (Morton) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom right corner. 
 Foul by Kevin McKinlay (Stirling Albion). 
 Ross Forbes (Morton) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt saved. Gordon Smith (Stirling Albion) right footed shot from long range on the right is saved in the centre of the goal. 
  Goal!  Goal! Stirling Albion 0, Morton 1. Jamie McCluskey (Morton) right footed shot from the right side of the box to the bottom right corner. Assisted by Ricki Lamie. 
 Corner, Morton. Conceded by Ross Forsyth. 
 Foul by Kevin McKinlay (Stirling Albion). 
 Ross Caldwell (Morton) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Philip Johnston (Stirling Albion). 
 Ricki Lamie (Morton) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Attempt missed. Declan McManus (Morton) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the right. 
   Second Half begins Stirling Albion 0, Morton 0. 
    Half Time  First Half ends, Stirling Albion 0, Morton 0. 
 Corner, Stirling Albion. Conceded by Mark Russell. 
 Foul by Angus Beith (Stirling Albion). 
 Ross Caldwell (Morton) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 (Stirling Albion) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Ross Caldwell (Morton). 
 Attempt saved. Sean Crighton (Morton) header from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Foul by Craig Comrie (Stirling Albion). 
 Jamie McCluskey (Morton) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Attempt missed. Ross Caldwell (Morton) right footed shot from very close range is just a bit too high. 
 Attempt saved. Mark Russell (Morton) left footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Attempt saved. Craig Comrie (Stirling Albion) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Corner, Morton. Conceded by Ross McGeachie. 
 Ross Forsyth (Stirling Albion) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Stefan McCluskey (Morton). 
 Attempt saved. Declan McManus (Morton) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Attempt saved. Gordon Smith (Stirling Albion) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top left corner. 
 Corner, Morton. Conceded by Ross Forsyth. 
 Angus Beith (Stirling Albion) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Declan McManus (Morton). 
 Foul by Ross Forsyth (Stirling Albion). 
 Ross Caldwell (Morton) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Attempt saved. Philip Johnston (Stirling Albion) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Foul by Adam Cummins (Stirling Albion). 
 Declan McManus (Morton) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt missed. Stefan McCluskey (Morton) right footed shot from outside the box misses to the left. 
 Attempt missed. Declan McManus (Morton) left footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses the top left corner. 
 Ross McGeachie (Stirling Albion) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Mark Russell (Morton). 
 Craig Comrie (Stirling Albion) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Mark Russell (Morton). 
 Foul by Gordon Smith (Stirling Albion). 
 Jamie McCluskey (Morton) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt missed. Ross Forsyth (Stirling Albion) header from the left side of the box is just a bit too high. 
 Corner, Stirling Albion. Conceded by Mark Russell. 
 Craig Comrie (Stirling Albion) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Ross Forbes (Morton). 
 Attempt missed. Declan McManus (Morton) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Attempt saved. Chris Paton (Stirling Albion) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Gordon Smith (Stirling Albion) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Michael Miller (Morton). 
 (Stirling Albion) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Declan McManus (Morton). 
 Craig Comrie (Stirling Albion) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Michael Miller (Morton). 
   First Half begins. 
 Lineups are announced and players are warming up. 
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
