  Wilson 2′  
  Hardie 10′, 48′  Vuckic 52′  
 Ryan Hardie scored twice on his first start as Rangers edged closer to securing the Scottish Championship runners-up place. 
 It was an ultimately comfortable win but Dumbarton drew first blood thanks to a tremendous Mark Wilson strike. 
 Hardie soon equalised but it took a two-goal burst early in the second half to put the visitors at ease. 
 Hardie looped in a second, quickly followed by an impressive shot from Haris Vuckic. 
 It puts Stuart McCall's side four points clear of Hibernian, with the Edinburgh club having three games left to play - one more than Rangers. 
 Dumbarton have already achieved their goal of Championship survival and on an uneven pitch provided Rangers with a stiff examination of their promotion credentials. 
 Rangers' habit of making life awkward for themselves manifested itself from the outset though, as first Nicky Clark scooped the ball over with the goal gaping before the home side galloped forward to open the scoring. 
 Wilson will rarely have struck the ball as sweetly as he did when the ball fell to him at the back post, volleying tenaciously past Cammy Bell. 
 However, Bell's opposite number, Danny Rodgers, was the busier man, saving brilliantly in the opening period from Lee McCulloch's acrobatic strike, Darren McGregor's long-range piledriver and Nicky Law's curling effort in addition to an important block to deny Vuckic. 
 But despite his best attempts, he could not prevent Hardie's equaliser creeping over the line. 
 The striker raced onto Vuckic's pass and though his shot was half-stopped by the keeper, the youngster followed up to ensure Stuart Findlay's efforts to clear were in vain. 
 For all their superiority in the shots-on-target column, there remained an edginess about Rangers until they established a two-goal cushion shortly after the interval. 
 Hardie hooked the ball over his head and past Rogers from Lee Wallace's cross and then Vuckic produced a gem of a goal, cutting in from the right on his left foot before unleashing a thunderous strike into Rogers' top-right corner. 
 That took the sting out of Dumbarton, although if the impressive Findlay had done better with a header that he directed straight at Bell it might have been a different story. 
 As it was, Rangers saw the game out and will now watch Hibs' midweek match away to Livingston with great interest. 
    Full Time  Match ends, Dumbarton 1, Rangers 3. 
    Full Time  Second Half ends, Dumbarton 1, Rangers 3. 
 Attempt missed. Archie Campbell (Dumbarton) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Attempt saved. Mitchel Megginson (Dumbarton) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. 
 Attempt missed. Nicky Clark (Rangers) right footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high. 
 Attempt missed. Calum Gallagher (Rangers) right footed shot from the centre of the box is just a bit too high following a corner. 
 Nicky Law (Rangers) hits the bar with a right footed shot from the left side of the box following a corner. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Rangers. Calum Gallagher replaces Ryan Hardie. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Rangers. Ian Black replaces Haris Vuckic. 
  Booking  Andy Graham (Dumbarton) is shown the yellow card. 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Scott Linton. 
  Booking  Mitchel Megginson (Dumbarton) is shown the yellow card. 
 Haris Vuckic (Rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Mitchel Megginson (Dumbarton). 
  Substitution  Substitution, Dumbarton. Scott Linton replaces Mark Gilhaney. 
 Attempt missed. Scott Agnew (Dumbarton) left footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the left from a direct free kick. 
 Foul by Haris Vuckic (Rangers). 
 Andy Graham (Dumbarton) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Haris Vuckic (Rangers). 
 Mark Gilhaney (Dumbarton) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Hand ball by Haris Vuckic (Rangers). 
 Attempt missed. Ryan Hardie (Rangers) right footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high. 
 Lee McCulloch (Rangers) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Mitchel Megginson (Dumbarton). 
  Substitution  Substitution, Dumbarton. Mitchel Megginson replaces Dylan Easton. 
 Attempt missed. Archie Campbell (Dumbarton) left footed shot from the left side of the box is just a bit too high. 
 Hand ball by Haris Vuckic (Rangers). 
 Attempt missed. Andy Murdoch (Rangers) right footed shot from outside the box is too high. 
 Attempt saved. Andy Graham (Dumbarton) header from the centre of the box is saved in the top left corner. 
 Garry Fleming (Dumbarton) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Lee McCulloch (Rangers). 
 Attempt missed. Haris Vuckic (Rangers) right footed shot from outside the box misses to the left. 
 Foul by Darren McGregor (Rangers). 
 Archie Campbell (Dumbarton) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Scott Taggart. 
 Attempt missed. Scott Taggart (Dumbarton) left footed shot from outside the box is too high. 
 Foul by Darren McGregor (Rangers). 
 Scott Taggart (Dumbarton) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Danny Rogers. 
 Marius Zaliukas (Rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Mark Gilhaney (Dumbarton). 
 Attempt missed. Nicky Clark (Rangers) right footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the right following a corner. 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Mark Wilson. 
  Goal!  Goal! Dumbarton 1, Rangers 3. Haris Vuckic (Rangers) left footed shot from outside the box to the top left corner. Assisted by Nicky Law. 
 Attempt missed. Tom Walsh (Rangers) left footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the right. 
  Goal!  Goal! Dumbarton 1, Rangers 2. Ryan Hardie (Rangers) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom left corner. Assisted by Lee Wallace with a cross. 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Andy Graham. 
   Second Half begins Dumbarton 1, Rangers 1. 
    Half Time  First Half ends, Dumbarton 1, Rangers 1. 
 Attempt saved. Haris Vuckic (Rangers) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom right corner. 
 Lee McCulloch (Rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Stuart Findlay (Dumbarton). 
 Corner, Dumbarton. Conceded by Marius Zaliukas. 
 Attempt missed. Haris Vuckic (Rangers) left footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Tom Walsh (Rangers) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Garry Fleming (Dumbarton). 
 Attempt saved. Nicky Clark (Rangers) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Lee McCulloch (Rangers) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Dylan Easton (Dumbarton). 
 Mark Wilson (Dumbarton) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Nicky Clark (Rangers). 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Scott Taggart. 
 Foul by Marius Zaliukas (Rangers). 
 Stuart Findlay (Dumbarton) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Danny Rogers. 
 Attempt saved. Nicky Law (Rangers) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the top right corner. 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Dylan Easton. 
 Corner, Dumbarton. Conceded by Nicky Clark. 
 Corner, Dumbarton. Conceded by Lee Wallace. 
 Corner, Dumbarton. Conceded by Nicky Law. 
 Attempt blocked. Scott Agnew (Dumbarton) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked. 
 Foul by Nicky Law (Rangers). 
 Jordan Kirkpatrick (Dumbarton) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt missed. Tom Walsh (Rangers) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Foul by Ryan Hardie (Rangers). 
 Andy Graham (Dumbarton) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt missed. Dylan Easton (Dumbarton) left footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Ryan Hardie (Rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Andy Graham (Dumbarton). 
 Attempt missed. Haris Vuckic (Rangers) left footed shot from outside the box misses to the left. 
 Attempt missed. Garry Fleming (Dumbarton) right footed shot from outside the box is too high. 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Danny Rogers. 
 Attempt saved. Darren McGregor (Rangers) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. 
  Goal!  Goal! Dumbarton 1, Rangers 1. Ryan Hardie (Rangers) right footed shot from very close range to the centre of the goal. Assisted by Haris Vuckic. 
 Attempt saved. Nicky Law (Rangers) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. 
 Attempt missed. Garry Fleming (Dumbarton) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Corner, Dumbarton. Conceded by Andy Murdoch. 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Danny Rogers. 
 Attempt saved. Lee McCulloch (Rangers) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Scott Taggart. 
 Attempt blocked. Tom Walsh (Rangers) left footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Stuart Findlay. 
  Goal!  Goal! Dumbarton 1, Rangers 0. Mark Wilson (Dumbarton) left footed shot from the left side of the box to the bottom right corner. Assisted by Dylan Easton with a cross. 
 Attempt missed. Nicky Clark (Rangers) right footed shot from the centre of the box is just a bit too high. 
   First Half begins. 
 Lineups are announced and players are warming up. 
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
