  Gardyne 21′  
  Frans 26′  O'Donnell 54′  
 Partick Thistle came from behind to secure a vital win to move 10 points clear of the relegation play-off place and to the brink of safety. 
 County struck first when Michael Gardyne fired Jamie Reckord's cross low into the net via a deflection. 
 Thistle promptly responded with Frederic Frans stunning the County rearguard with a long range effort that arrowed in off the post. 
 Then Stephen O'Donnell nudged Thistle ahead with another beauty. 
 It was an unusually flat performance from County as their nine game unbeaten run comes to an end, but they remain six points ahead of second-bottom Motherwell. 
 That appeared to be partly the result of an impressive performance from the visitors who threatened the home defence throughout. 
 Thistle quickly took control of the flow of play and came close when Ryan Stevenson fired a powerful effort narrowly over from inside the box. 
 Then the home side faced threats from several areas of the pitch and struggled to create many clear openings. 
 However, Jim McIntyre's side struck first following a wonderful delivery from the left from Reckord which Gardyne finished. 
 Thistle would have felt aggrieved given the balance of play but demonstrated their strength by continue to dictate. 
 They were rewarded from an unlikely source when Frans equalised with an unstoppable shot. 
 Thistle continued to press and went close again when Stuart Bannigan measured a curling left foot effort which narrowly evaded Mark Brown's post. 
 Brown then put himself under real pressure when he took too long on the ball and his clearance was charged down leaving him isolated outside the box. 
 The keeper did just enough to unbalance Ryan Stevenson who's effort bounced wide.. 
 Into the second half, the visitors had a claim for a penalty when Steven Lawless appeared to be pulled as he drove into the box. 
 Thistle wouldn't be denied and O'Donnell fired his side ahead with a strike of real quality. 
 He gathered on the right side of the area and drove the ball fiercely, catching Brown out of position when he perhaps expected a cross. 
 Substitute Tony Dingwall did claim for a penalty for the home side when he went down after surging into the box but the referee waved it away. 
 Given County's recent form you expected a late surge but it didn't materialise as Thistle on the day proved to be the better side. 
 With just four games to go, Partick Thistle will feel a 10 point advantage and vastly superior goal difference should allow them to focus on finishing higher up the table. 
    Full Time  Match ends, Ross County 1, Partick Thistle 2. 
    Full Time  Second Half ends, Ross County 1, Partick Thistle 2. 
 Corner, Partick Thistle. Conceded by Martin Woods. 
 Marcus Fraser (Ross County) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Stuart Bannigan (Partick Thistle). 
 Stuart Bannigan (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Tony Dingwall (Ross County). 
 Foul by Joe Cardle (Ross County). 
 Ryan Stevenson (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Partick Thistle. Kris Doolan replaces Lyle Taylor. 
 Rocco Quinn (Ross County) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Abdul Osman (Partick Thistle). 
 Corner, Partick Thistle. Conceded by Jamie Reckord. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Partick Thistle. Christie Elliott replaces Kallum Higginbotham. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Ross County. Joe Cardle replaces Filip Kiss. 
 Tony Dingwall (Ross County) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Abdul Osman (Partick Thistle). 
  Booking  Rocco Quinn (Ross County) is shown the yellow card. 
 Foul by Rocco Quinn (Ross County). 
 Abdul Osman (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Corner, Partick Thistle. Conceded by Mark Brown. 
 Attempt saved. Stephen O'Donnell (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the top left corner. 
 Foul by Filip Kiss (Ross County). 
 Steven Lawless (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Martin Woods (Ross County). 
 Stephen O'Donnell (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Tony Dingwall (Ross County). 
 Ryan Stevenson (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Liam Boyce (Ross County) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Ryan Stevenson (Partick Thistle). 
 Corner, Ross County. Conceded by Stuart Bannigan. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Ross County. Tony Dingwall replaces Raffaele De Vita. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Ross County. Rocco Quinn replaces Craig Curran. 
  Goal!  Goal! Ross County 1, Partick Thistle 2. Stephen O'Donnell (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from the right side of the box to the top left corner. 
 Michael Gardyne (Ross County) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Lyle Taylor (Partick Thistle). 
 Corner, Ross County. Conceded by Abdul Osman. 
 Attempt missed. Lyle Taylor (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from the right side of the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Corner, Partick Thistle. Conceded by Marcus Fraser. 
   Second Half begins Ross County 1, Partick Thistle 1. 
    Half Time  First Half ends, Ross County 1, Partick Thistle 1. 
 Attempt saved. Ryan Stevenson (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
  Booking  Scott Boyd (Ross County) is shown the yellow card. 
 Foul by Scott Boyd (Ross County). 
 Kallum Higginbotham (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Attempt missed. Callum Booth (Partick Thistle) left footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Craig Curran (Ross County) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Frederic Frans (Partick Thistle). 
 Attempt missed. Ryan Stevenson (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Michael Gardyne (Ross County) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Stuart Bannigan (Partick Thistle). 
 Foul by Filip Kiss (Ross County). 
 Stephen O'Donnell (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Paul Quinn (Ross County) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Lyle Taylor (Partick Thistle). 
 Attempt missed. Stuart Bannigan (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Attempt saved. Ryan Stevenson (Partick Thistle) left footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Attempt saved. Callum Booth (Partick Thistle) left footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
  Goal!  Goal! Ross County 1, Partick Thistle 1. Frederic Frans (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from outside the box to the bottom left corner. 
 Marcus Fraser (Ross County) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Ryan Stevenson (Partick Thistle). 
  Goal!  Goal! Ross County 1, Partick Thistle 0. Michael Gardyne (Ross County) right footed shot from a difficult angle on the right to the centre of the goal. 
 Filip Kiss (Ross County) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Callum Booth (Partick Thistle). 
 Attempt missed. Ryan Stevenson (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from the centre of the box is just a bit too high. 
 Corner, Partick Thistle. Conceded by Filip Kiss. 
 Corner, Partick Thistle. Conceded by Jamie Reckord. 
 Foul by Marcus Fraser (Ross County). 
 Steven Lawless (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Filip Kiss (Ross County) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Abdul Osman (Partick Thistle). 
 Attempt saved. Ryan Stevenson (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Craig Curran (Ross County) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Callum Booth (Partick Thistle). 
   First Half begins. 
 Lineups are announced and players are warming up. 
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
