  Kelly 8′  Sadlier 33′  Thompson 57′ (pen), 65′ (pen)  
  Magennis 53′  
 Bottom side St Mirren moved to within seven points of Motherwell with four games to go by beating Kilmarnock. 
 Buddies defender Sean Kelly drilled into the far corner and Kieran Sadlier's close-range header doubled the lead. 
 Josh Magennis pulled one back from 18 yards for Kilmarnock. 
 But an Alexei Eremenko handball and a Manuel Pascali foul gave St Mirren two penalties which captain Stephen Thompson duly converted. 
 Suddenly there is a chink of light for Gary Teale's St Mirren as they stare up out of the automatic relegation trap door that most felt had already shut and locked. 
 With 12 points still up for grabs, the Buddies can know they can apply further pressure on Motherwell, who visit Paisley in the penultimate round of fixtures. 
 St Mirren Park has not previously been a daunting place to come calling - this was on the hosts' second home league win of the season - but Teale's side seemed re-energised against an underwhelming Kilmarnock. 
 The 50th anniversary of Killie's only top-flight title win should have inspired them, but instead Gary Locke's side struggled in the first half and St Mirren capitalised. 
 Centre-back Kelly was still up front following a set piece when Nathan Eccleston's misplaced pass presented the Buddies youngster with the chance to drill the ball into Craig Samson's far corner for his third of the season. 
 A last-ditch challenge on Thompson by Kilmarnock defender Lee Ashcroft did not bring a penalty but St Mirren's second came soon after when former West Ham forward Sadlier picked up the scraps when Jason Naismith's shot was partially saved. 
 Magennis's sixth of the season gave Killie a lifeline - the Northern Irishman finishing well beyond Mark Ridgers after Chris Johnston's pass. 
 Any resurgence would be short-lived though as referee Kevin Clancy awarded St Mirren the first of two penalties when Stephen Mallan's free-kick struck the hand of Eremenko. 
 Thompson's execution was not the cleanest but he saved a nicer finish for his second penalty eight minutes later after Pascali had felled Dayton. 
 Both sides hit the woodwork late on - Magennis and Mallan coming close - and Thompson got a standing ovation when substituted. 
    Full Time  Match ends, St. Mirren 4, Kilmarnock 1. 
    Full Time  Second Half ends, St. Mirren 4, Kilmarnock 1. 
 Attempt missed. Mark O'Hara (Kilmarnock) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Stephen Mallan (St. Mirren) hits the bar with a right footed shot from outside the box. 
 Hand ball by Craig Samson (Kilmarnock). 
 Attempt saved. Lee Miller (Kilmarnock) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom right corner. 
 Foul by Barry Cuddihy (St. Mirren). 
 Rory McKenzie (Kilmarnock) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Attempt saved. Adam Brown (St. Mirren) left footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Stephen Mallan (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Rory McKenzie (Kilmarnock). 
  Substitution  Substitution, St. Mirren. Barry Cuddihy replaces Thomas Reilly. 
 Attempt blocked. Chris Johnston (Kilmarnock) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. 
 Corner, St. Mirren. Conceded by Mark O'Hara. 
 Corner, St. Mirren. Conceded by Manuel Pascali. 
  Booking  Stephen Mallan (St. Mirren) is shown the yellow card. 
 Attempt saved. Josh Magennis (Kilmarnock) header from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom right corner. 
 Josh Magennis (Kilmarnock) hits the left post with a header from the centre of the box. 
 Corner, Kilmarnock. Conceded by Kieran Sadlier. 
 Corner, Kilmarnock. Conceded by Jack Baird. 
 Attempt blocked. Chris Johnston (Kilmarnock) left footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. 
  Substitution  Substitution, St. Mirren. Alan Gow replaces Steven Thompson. 
  Substitution  Substitution, St. Mirren. Adam Brown replaces James Dayton. 
 Attempt missed. Rory McKenzie (Kilmarnock) left footed shot from outside the box misses to the left. 
 Corner, Kilmarnock. Conceded by Jason Naismith. 
 Corner, Kilmarnock. Conceded by Jack Baird. 
 Corner, St. Mirren. Conceded by Craig Samson. 
 Attempt saved. Stephen Mallan (St. Mirren) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Kilmarnock. Rory McKenzie replaces Tope Obadeyi. 
 Foul by Kieran Sadlier (St. Mirren). 
 Sammy Clingan (Kilmarnock) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Attempt saved. Josh Magennis (Kilmarnock) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Gregg Wylde (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Mark O'Hara (Kilmarnock). 
  Goal!  Goal! St. Mirren 4, Kilmarnock 1. Steven Thompson (St. Mirren) converts the penalty with a right footed shot to the bottom left corner. 
  Booking  Manuel Pascali (Kilmarnock) is shown the yellow card. 
 Penalty St. Mirren. James Dayton draws a foul in the penalty area. 
 Penalty conceded by Manuel Pascali (Kilmarnock) after a foul in the penalty area. 
 Corner, Kilmarnock. Conceded by Mark Ridgers. 
 Attempt saved. Josh Magennis (Kilmarnock) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top left corner. 
 Foul by James Dayton (St. Mirren). 
 Manuel Pascali (Kilmarnock) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
  Booking  Alexei Eremenko (Kilmarnock) is shown the yellow card. 
 Corner, St. Mirren. Conceded by Manuel Pascali. 
  Goal!  Goal! St. Mirren 3, Kilmarnock 1. Steven Thompson (St. Mirren) converts the penalty with a right footed shot to the bottom right corner. 
 Penalty conceded by Alexei Eremenko (Kilmarnock) with a hand ball in the penalty area. 
  Booking  Mark O'Hara (Kilmarnock) is shown the yellow card. 
 Kieran Sadlier (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Mark O'Hara (Kilmarnock). 
 Jeroen Tesselaar (St. Mirren) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Josh Magennis (Kilmarnock). 
  Goal!  Goal! St. Mirren 2, Kilmarnock 1. Josh Magennis (Kilmarnock) right footed shot from outside the box to the bottom left corner. 
 Corner, St. Mirren. Conceded by Lee Miller. 
 Corner, St. Mirren. Conceded by Mark O'Hara. 
   Second Half begins St. Mirren 2, Kilmarnock 0. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Kilmarnock. Alexei Eremenko replaces Craig Slater. 
    Half Time  First Half ends, St. Mirren 2, Kilmarnock 0. 
 Sean Kelly (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Lee Ashcroft (Kilmarnock). 
 Corner, Kilmarnock. Conceded by Jason Naismith. 
 James Dayton (St. Mirren) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Ross Barbour (Kilmarnock). 
 Foul by Jack Baird (St. Mirren). 
 Lee Miller (Kilmarnock) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Steven Thompson (St. Mirren) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Manuel Pascali (Kilmarnock). 
 Attempt blocked. Sammy Clingan (Kilmarnock) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. 
 Foul by Stephen Mallan (St. Mirren). 
 Lee Miller (Kilmarnock) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Attempt missed. Jason Naismith (St. Mirren) right footed shot from the right side of the box is too high. 
  Goal!  Goal! St. Mirren 2, Kilmarnock 0. Kieran Sadlier (St. Mirren) header from the centre of the box to the centre of the goal. 
 Attempt saved. Manuel Pascali (Kilmarnock) header from the left side of the six yard box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Foul by Jeroen Tesselaar (St. Mirren). 
 Chris Johnston (Kilmarnock) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt blocked. Chris Johnston (Kilmarnock) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Kilmarnock. Lee Miller replaces Nathan Eccleston because of an injury. 
 Stephen Mallan (St. Mirren) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Ross Barbour (Kilmarnock). 
 Attempt missed. Steven Thompson (St. Mirren) left footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Gregg Wylde (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Nathan Eccleston (Kilmarnock). 
 Corner, St. Mirren. Conceded by Ross Barbour. 
 Delay over. They are ready to continue. 
 Attempt missed. Stephen Mallan (St. Mirren) right footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high. 
 Corner, St. Mirren. Conceded by Manuel Pascali. 
 Attempt blocked. Steven Thompson (St. Mirren) header from the right side of the six yard box is blocked. 
 Corner, St. Mirren. Conceded by Ross Barbour. 
 James Dayton (St. Mirren) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Craig Slater (Kilmarnock). 
 Attempt missed. Jack Baird (St. Mirren) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Corner, St. Mirren. Conceded by Ross Barbour. 
 Attempt missed. Stephen Mallan (St. Mirren) right footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high. 
  Goal!  Goal! St. Mirren 1, Kilmarnock 0. Sean Kelly (St. Mirren) left footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom right corner. 
 Corner, St. Mirren. Conceded by Lee Ashcroft. 
 Stephen Mallan (St. Mirren) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Nathan Eccleston (Kilmarnock). 
 James Dayton (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Craig Slater (Kilmarnock). 
 Attempt missed. Thomas Reilly (St. Mirren) header from the centre of the box is too high. 
 Corner, St. Mirren. Conceded by Sammy Clingan. 
 James Dayton (St. Mirren) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Tope Obadeyi (Kilmarnock). 
   First Half begins. 
 Lineups are announced and players are warming up. 
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
