 IT’S ONE of the most exciting – and male- dominated – action sports in the country. 
 But as one of the biggest mountain-biking events hits Scotland this weekend, a small group of exciting Scots athletes are working hard to encourage more women to get in the saddle. 
 The British Mountain Bike Marathon Championships kick off in Selkirk tomorrow, and leading the charge for Scotland are flying females Isla Short and Lee Craigie. 
Isla, 18, from Biggar, is the sport’s next big thing, while Lee, 35, from Inverness, was Scotland’s highest-placed women rider at the Commonwealth Games and has won the championships twice in the last three years.
The event this weekend – a six- hour ride across a gorgeous but gruelling course in the Borders – is one of the highlights of the mountain biking calendar.
Both women will be pushing for glory and are also working hard to boost the sport amongst women.
With action and extreme sports often seen as mainly male dominated, they want to encourage as many young girls to take it up – and they are very aware they are flying the flag for their gender as much as their country.
Female participation in all forms of cycling has gone up 35 per cent according to the most recent figures, and there has been a 34 per cent increase in female cycle racers since 2012.
Jennifer Pearson, of Scottish Cycling, is seeing more women taking to the hills than ever. She said: “Lee and Isla are fantastic ambassadors for the sport and there has been a lot more interest in the sport in recent years, with a lot more women using the trail centres across Scotland.
“There are a lot more female participants in downhill and cross-country mountain biking, for sport or for leisure or to stay fit – or just have fun.”
SHE has been riding a mountain bike since she was nine and was entering competitions just four years later.
Now aged 18, Isla Short is one of the hottest young talents on the UK scene and is targeting the Olympics.
She has lifted cross-country titles all over the country and is heading into this weekend’s British Championships as one to watch.
 

But as well as fighting for podiums and medals, she is also desperate to see as many other women join her in the sport as possible.
Isla, who is semi-pro with the Novus OMX Team as well as studying French at the University of Stirling, thinks it’s a fantastic sport for young women to take part in.
She said: “It’s a sport that is becoming more popular but at the moment, it doesn’t have as many women and girls taking part. It’s hard to say why it’s like that.
“Hopefully the success of the Commonwealth Games will help encourage more people to give it a shot.
“Although I’d love to see more girls get into the sport, one of the advantages is that it is easier to get noticed if you do well – for the basic reason that there are less women doing it.
“I’d definitely encourage women to take it up. It’s amazing and I love it and there are some amazing women taking part, like Lee.
“My heroine in the sport is Gunn-Rita Dahle Flesja, who has won Olympic titles and world titles and has had an amazing career and her family.
“I’m working hard to do my best. I’m probably a little young for the Rio Olympics but I am working towards Tokyo 2020, and then 2024.
“I love it and this weekend is going to be great because it’s like my home course and I’m really looking forward to it.”
Isla trains six days a week on the bike and two days a week in the gym to keep in shape for the endurance-sapping sport, which can see her cover 60-70km in around four hours up and down mountain trails.
It’s a hard shift which she loves. Now she just wants to see as many other girls as possible join her on the track.
And when they get there, she hopes they are judged on their ability and performance, and not just on their appearance.
She added: “Id love to see women in sport not judged based on the way they look. It happens in every sport and we should be working to change those attitudes.”
GROWING up in Glasgow’s west end, Lee Craigie cut about on a hand-me-down BMX. An outdoorsy kid, she loved exploring, adventures and climbing.
“Anything that got me out into the hills,” she told the Record. “Mountain biking was just the next step.”
The Commonwealth Games star was 25 when she entered her first race.
 

“I realised I was quite good at this,” she recalled, “but I’d done other sports, my body was prepared, so I could enter at quite a high level.” Yet while she adores off-road adrenaline riding, Lee sees cycling as a great sport for women at all ages and stages.
She said: “It’s never too late to take it up. I know people who’ve started in their 50s and it’s changed their lives.
“Once you get on a proper mountain bike, with suspension and big bouncy tyres, you realise that your limitations are not you. They are your equipment.”
Lee has seen an influx of young women coming into the sport over the past couple of years. “It manages to reach people in a way other activities don’t. There are different levels of intensity – you can use your bike to get around, to access adventure, to socialise. You don’t have to get sweaty and hot and horrible. It ticks so many boxes.”
It’s not, she added, “an organised sport – that can be a turn-off for women. And it’s something you can do with your kids.”
She would love to see even more women cycling, whether they’re pelting down the hills in a race or doing the school run. And while she admits that helmet hair is not a good look, there are many benefits.
“Rosy cheeks. Tight buns. You get amazing quads and hamstrings from cycling. Anything that raises your heart rate a bit has a huge neurological advantage.”
Lee thinks that cycling is an ideal sport for young women who do not see themselves as sporty. “As their bodies change and they’re trying to find their place in the world, physical activity does not often feature.
“We need to help them catch the bug – to show them that cycling is cool, it lets you be independent, you can get around and see your mates, it makes you fit and strong.”
 

This is, she insists, an easier sell than some more hard-core sports. “I’m not asking them to put on their gym shorts and do a 400-metre sprint. I’m asking them to get on a bike and go for an adventure.”
 For more on the weekend’s events, visit www.selkirkmtbmarathon.com 
