 IT features a middle-aged man dressed up as an old lady , surrounded by her hilariously dysfunctional family in a  traditional working-class home. 
 But the stars of the National Theatre of Scotland’s latest show have issued a warning to fans of one of the country’s most popular comedies – this is no Mrs Brown’s Boys . 
Some of Scotland’s top comic turns are in rehearsals for chip shop play Yer Granny, set in the home of a Scots-Italian fryer family.
 Rab C Nesbitt duo Barbara Rafferty and Gregor Fisher, Still Game’s Paul Riley, Only An Excuse’s Jonathan Watson and Nesbitt regular Brian Pettifer are among the names starring in the new NTS touring production. 
Fisher stars as a 100-year-old woman with an insatiable appetite in the play which has been adapted by populist writer Douglas Maxwell from the original Argentinian script La Nona by Roberto Cossa.
 

But the cast were quick to distance themselves from associations with Brendan O’Carroll’s Irish comedy when the Record joined them in rehearsals at Glasgow’s Glue Factory.
Fisher said: “There’s no comparison. It’s so far removed from Mrs Brown’s Boys, so far removed from that panto thing. But it is very, very funny, and your life will be enriched if you come to see it – although if you’re expecting Mrs Brown’s Boys, you’ll be disappointed.”
Co-star Maureen Beattie added: “The comparison begins and ends with the fact that the central character is a man dressed as a woman. Mrs Brown’s Boys is genius but it’s just a sit-com whose central premise is that Mrs Brown is a man. The woman in Yer Granny goes on eating until there’s nothing left.”
Co-star Rafferty agreed, saying: “The characters in Yer Granny aren’t stereotypical and the comedy isn’t slapstick. Audiences will definitely laugh, though.”
For Fisher – who has spent most of his career in front of camera for TV and film projects – the decision to move back to theatre wasn’t immediate. He needed a little coaxing.
 “The offer came to me after Barbara said something to someone who said something to someone else and it  eventually landed in my lap,” he explained. “At first I thought, ‘Ooh, dunno. That means every night, sometimes twice a day.’ But then my son Jamie said to me that someone once told him that we should all do something every day that frightened us. 
 

“I asked him who. He said it was me. You should also never say smart-a***d things to your children because they’ll only say them back to you.
“But I thought it was a fun project to be a part of.”
When the Record visited rehearsals, the cast, who also include Louise McCarthy, were working through a setpiece in a 1970s room and kitchen against a thumping Bay City Rollers soundtrack with director Graham McLaren.
Riley was slobbing out on an old settee, Beattie was hiding food in the living room unit, Rafferty was dancing in the kitchen and Fisher was shambling through the house.
Fisher said: “The character is called Granny. But the question is what is she? She’s a 100-year-old woman who comes back from the doctor with a clean bill of health and teeth of a teenager.
“Some say she’s the distillation of the Argentinian Junta of the time. Some say she’s the personification of greed. Some say she is the embodiment of death.
“She’s a monster. But it’s up to the audience to decide what kind of monster. That’s what makes it interesting. It’s crazy, larger than life, extremely funny. It’s very exciting. And that’s why I got off my fat rump to do it.”
His Nesbitt co-star Rafferty calls the play “mad and dark – but it gets hysterical in places”. She added: “We see it as a comedy with lots of jeopardy. And it’s great to work again with Gregor.”
As you’d expect, there’s a lot of food on the go. Beattie let us into a secret: “I did a play called My Fat Friend years ago and they used ripe melon coloured with food dye to double as chips. Our assistant stage manager has done a great job faking our sausage suppers.”
 Yer Granny will run at The Beacon, Greenock, May 19-21; King’s Theatre, Glasgow, May 26-30; King’s Theatre Edinburgh, June 2-6; Eden Court, Inverness June 9-13; Lyric Theatre, Belfast, June 23-27. 

