 THE countdown to the glittering Scottish Education Awards ceremony has begun. 
 All the finalists have now been chosen in each of the 17 categories and panels of expert judges are now touring every part of the country, visiting the schools to decide who will win the coveted awards. 
Hundreds of entries detailing the amazing work being done in Scotland’s schools have now been whittled down to a maximum of three finalists in each category.
 The awards – hosted by comedian and radio star Des Clarke – will be held at the Thistle Hotel, Glasgow, on June 10. 
Among this year’s finalists is Sharon Hunter, headteacher at Busby Primary in East Renfrewshire. She has been nominated in the Enterprise and Employability Across Learning (Primary and Early Years).
Sharon has been the headteacher at the village school for five years and introduced an innovative programme teaching skills for life. It has had an impact on both the school and the wider community.
She explained: “We have personalised our curriculum to suit the needs of children in the area. We have introduced a lot of vocational skills like cooking, working in the local community and health and wellbeing.
“Our curriculum evolved over the last four years. We have five main themes in what we call our masterclasses – food technology, enterprise, creative, community and life skills.”
All children from nursery through to primary seven get involved with the programme.
 

In food technology, for example, the little ones learn how to make a sandwich or a fruit kebab, while the older ones attend the City of Glasgow College where they learn about food hygiene and the importance of punctuality as well as cooking skills.
In the enterprise section, they get involved in business. This year, some are working with the Queen’s kiltmaker Kinloch Anderson in Edinburgh to develop the school’s own tartan.
Creative topics could be working with ceramics, dance or film and the school’s community theme has seen them “adopt” Busby train station by changing the flowers in the planters, providing artwork and generally cleaning up the station.
There is a holistic approach to life skills. Children can receive a HeartStart qualification and there are plans to introduce a first aid qualification. But they are also taught to use massage as a means of relaxation to help counter stress they may face in the future.
Sharon said: “We want children to be excited to come to school and want to provide loads of opportunities. It makes education come alive for them if they can see its relevance in the real world.”
But while Sharon is the one nominated for her programme, she sees it as a whole school nomination. She said: “We are honoured to be in the final. Even if we don’t get any further, it’s a wonderful achievement for the staff and pupils – they are the ones who have made it work.
“It is so good for them to be recognised. Teachers, office staff, pupil support assistants, child development officers and the janitor, it is their nomination, not mine. We are all singing from the same hymn sheet – everyone right down to the cleaners wants the children to do well.”
Last year, Glasgow’s Eastbank PS was honoured for innovative thinking. The Shettleston school won the Health and Wellbeing category after adopting a five-value system based on talks between pupils, parents and teachers.

They created characters to represent their prime values of respect, politeness, fairness, responsibility and honesty after putting it to a vote. It led to an increase in good behaviour. Last year, Eastbank looked at old school rules and found a need to make them more relevant.
Headteacher Gayle Minnis said: “Pupils developed their own characters for each of the values – Harry Honesty, Fiona Fairness, Robin Respect, Peter Politeness and Rebecca Responsibility. Our various pupil councils also took on different jobs so the values are kept alive.”
Gayle added: “When we came back after winning, the whole school was waiting in the playground and we had to do a lap of honour with it.
“The sense of pride at winning was huge and it has allowed us to stay enthusiastic. It has generated a lot of attention and we have met loads of new friends in other schools.”
 To be a sponsor, call: 0141 309 4906 

