A former children's panel chairman has been found guilty of sexually abusing two vulnerable boys and a young man.
Daniel Ross, 62, began abusing one of his victims from the age of 14 in the 1990s, and another from the age of 13 in the 1980s, at locations in Glasgow.
Ross's first victim, now aged 55, was sexually assaulted in the late 1970s.
He was found guilty of six sexual abuse charges at the High Court in Glasgow. Sentence on Ross was deferred and he was remanded in custody.
The trial heard how Ross abused his senior position at the Children's Panel to prey on a teenage boy at its offices in the city's Albion Street in the 1990s. 
The victim, now aged 38, recalled how he had been in care since the age of 11 and ended up before the children's panel due to his problems at the time. 
He told the jury that he initially thought Ross &quot;was quite a nice person&quot; but this changed when he was about 14. 
The witness said that Ross abused him for the first time before a children's panel hearing in Albion Street.
The incident took place in a room next to where the panel was to be held.
The court was told that as Ross continued to molest the boy, he told him that &quot;because of his position&quot; he would &quot;deny&quot; what happened. 
Ross had already earlier abused another young boy between 1985 and 1988. He also met this victim through the children's panel. 
Ross then got him a job at a cafe he ran - giving him access to prey on the troubled youngster. 
The victim said he was about 13 when the attacks began and that it became a &quot;regular thing&quot;. 
Ross's first victim was sexually assaulted after they met at a gay club in the late 1970s. 
They later lived together at a flat in Glasgow's Ibrox area but the witness said: &quot;I was very much like a slave. I did not have a life - compared to what I have achieved now, I had no life.&quot; 
The victim - now aged 55 - later added: &quot;He is evil - evil in every way. Danny never took me seriously with anything.&quot; 
Police initially investigated Ross in 2001 but no charges were brought. 
However, in 2012, the victim Ross abused at the cafe again spoke to detectives. 
He told the jury: &quot;The Jimmy Savile thing started up and brought everything flooding back.&quot; 
It sparked a fresh probe into the allegations and resulted in Ross being brought to court.
