 Ed Miliband will today invoke the deep-rooted history of Labour in Scotland as he makes an emotional plea for voters to stick with his party . 
 The Labour leader will ask traditional supporters to consider the loyalty of their parents and grandparents to the party in his first direct admission that the SNP are on the brink of winning in their heartlands. 
In an effort to take the mantle of social justice back from a rampant SNP who threaten to wipe out every Labour seat in the country, Miliband will tell Scots: “Nationalism never built a school. It never lifted people out of poverty.”
 In his strongest attack yet on the SNP, Miliband will make an appeal to patriotism and Scotland’s Labour traditions. 
 He will say that nationalism is a gamble that would leave Cameron in Downing Street and Scots in poverty. 
Miliband is due to tell a rally in Glasgow: “Nationalism never created a welfare state that healed the sick and protected our most vulnerable. It is Labour values, Labour ideas and the determination of people across Scotland that has built this country to what it is today.
“Remember throughout history, it’s Labour values that have changed Scotland.”
  Ed Miliband: I'd rather not be Prime Minister than do a deal with the SNP 
Miliband will fire the starting gun on a frantic final weekend of election campaigning at the Glasgow rally after a day of working to win over voters in England, Wales and Scotland.
He will call on people across Scotland to help Labour sweep to power and to be part of the radical government he wants to lead.

 Miliband is expected to say: “I’ve never pretended that changing our country, standing up to vested interests, building a better Scotland would be easy. 
“It will be hard. But I want the people of Scotland to join me, join Labour, join people across the United Kingdom, in making it happen.
He will add: “We could be under a week away from a Labour Government. I don’t want anyone here to look back and wish you had been part of the change we are going to make.”
 Miliband will make big references to Labour’s Scottish heritage in the hope that by tapping into voters’ memories of social change, he can bring them back to the party in the final week before the poll. 
He will say that Scotland has always led social change across Britain and will invoke great Labour names from Keir Hardie to Donald Dewar to reconnect the party to Scots.
He will say: “Imagine all the people you know who have built Labour in Scotland.
“Your grandparents who fought for their rights in the shipyards and mines across this country.
“Your mums and dads, many of whom delivered leaflets for Labour or knocked on doors.
 “We could be on the verge of electing a Labour government. They would want to be part of it. They would want to be part of building the better future.” 
But the Labour leader’s strongest appeal will be for Scots to be part of the change that will kick David Cameron out of power. A vote for the SNP risks leaving the Tories in charge, he will warn.
Miliband will say: “Be part of booking the removal vans that will roll up outside Downing Street next Friday.
“So let’s come together and get the Labour government that Scotland needs to kick the Tories out on Thursday.”

