 ED MILIBAND last night delivered an impassioned warning that setting England against Scotland will harm working people. 
 The Labour leader was in Glasgow one day after revealing he would not be prime minister if it meant doing a deal with Nicola Sturgeon’s party at Westminster. 
Speaking at the Tollcross International Swimming Centre, he urged people not to “gamble” with the SNP.
In a well-received speech, Miliband said: “We cannot deal with a party that promises to end sharing and throw solidarity to the winds.
“If we set England against Scotland, if we set any part of our country against another it does not help working people, it harms working people.
“It undermines the ability to share resources and it drives down wages and conditions in the race to the bottom.
 “Nationalism doesn’t understand we are stronger, not weaker, when we look after each other across the whole of  our country.” 
 He was in the east end of the city as a new poll suggested his party is clawing back a little ground in Scottish Labour leader Jim Murphy’s East Renfrewshire seat. 
The survey by Lord Ashcroft suggested Murphy has narrowed the gap from nine points to three behind the SNP in a month.
The shift appears to be helped by Tory voters tactically supporting Murphy in his attempt to hold his battleground seat, the pollster said.
Miliband addressed about 300 activists and members at the event hosted by John Michie, the former Taggart actor.

The Labour leader told them: “I have a clear message for the people of Scotland today – don’t gamble with the SNP when you can guarantee change with Labour. I will never put the Tories into government. I have spent my entire political career fighting them.
“But the tragedy is that the SNP may very well might let the Tories in. That’s what could happen if the Tories are the largest party.
“But I am also clear there will be no deal, no pact, no coalition, no tie-in with the SNP.
“And I don’t say that for tactical reasons. I’m advocating this for principled reasons.
“We cannot do a deal with a party that wants to break up the UK when we want to build it up.”
 Miliband repeated his pledge to deliver on the vow made by Westminster leaders before the referendum. He added: “We made the vow, we’ll keep the vow. And in the first 100 days of a Labour government we will deliver.” 
 Glasgow East candidate Margaret Curran, the Shadow Scottish secretary, told the crowd to help stop five more years of the Tories. She said: “In the closing days, lots of Scots are still making up their minds. 
“Labour has a historic duty. Let’s make sure in these closing days we think about working mothers, pensioners, the unemployed and young people.
“Let’s not spend another five years in conversation – we’ve got work to do.”
Murphy also took to the stage to rally activists in the final weekend of the campaign.
He said: “Change is coming to the east end of Glasgow, Manchester, Liverpool and Cardiff.
“And whisper it, if you’re in nationalist company – that change is also coming to the east end of London.”
 

I WILL NEVER put the Tories into government – I have spent my entire political career fighting them. The tragedy is that the SNP might.
Five more years of Tory austerity would have a devastating impact on the working people of Britain.
Five more years of Tory austerity would spell ruin for the people of Scotland.
But we don’t have to settle for another Tory mess caused by five more years of their failed plan.
Britain can do better than this. Things can be better for families in Scotland and across the UK.
I start from a very simple principle – when working families succeed, Britain succeeds.
I reject entirely the idea that if we help a few people at the very top of society, somehow that will trickle down to the rest of us. It’s just not true.
So we’ve got a plan to make the whole of Britain fairer for working-class families.
We’ll abolish those exploitative zero-hours contracts that mean families have no job security.
We’ll tax the bank bonuses to guarantee a job, training and an apprenticeship for young people out of work. We’ll abolish the bedroom tax for good and increase the minimum wage to at least &pound;8 an hour, as well as expanding the living wage.

When you vote on Thursday, remember you will wake up on Friday with a Labour government led by me or a Tory government led by David Cameron.
To those considering voting for the SNP, I say this – more SNP MPs means fewer Labour MPs, and more chance that the Tories will be the largest party.
David Cameron knows he can’t beat Labour in Scotland. That’s obvious. So he is desperate for the SNP to do it for him.
Let me be very clear. There will be no coalition, deal or pact with the SNP. The only way to get a Labour government is to vote for Labour.
We cannot do a deal with a party that wants to break up Britain.
We believe in the principles of sharing and solidarity that underpin the partnership of four nations that is the modern UK.
I want Scotland to be part of the change coming to Britain. Like we have in the past, working people can join together to deliver a fairer nation. The only way to do that is to vote Labour on Thursday.
  Record View: Let David Cameron and the Conservatives back in and you're finished 
 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

