A SERIAL rapist screamed abuse at one of his victims as he was led down to the cells to begin a life sentence for a 16-year reign of terror.
Sadistic Gerry McMurray, who abused seven women, taunted brave Heather Ratcliffe from the dock as he was warned he may never be released from prison.
Heather wept as she finally saw the 35-year-old jailed for his brutal catalogue of crimes. She has waited seven months for him to be sentenced.
As he was sent down, McMurray, who had appeared agitated throughout the 40-minute hearing, screamed at Heather: “Tell your sister she’s f*****g dead!”
Guards then ushered him down the steps.
Heather’s sister was a witness whose evidence was seen as a key factor in securing McMurray’s conviction.
Heather said: “I am just really relieved it’s all over and I can try to get on with my life.”
Heather, 25, from Fife, has previously told the Record about her ordeal. She has been left with post-traumatic stress disorder after being held hostage by the brute for four months.
She was repeatedly raped and battered. He broke her ribs with a dumbbell.
On one occasion, he hit her repeatedly with a mobile phone until it broke into pieces then viciously sexually assaulted her.
She only escaped his clutches when she painstakingly pieced together the phone over several weeks.
McMurray’s continued denials of the crimes were branded “distorted and pathological” by those compiling the pre-sentencing reports, the High Court in Glasgow heard. Judge Lady Wise told him she was imposing a lifelong restriction order for an “appalling course of criminal conduct” .
He will only be freed from prison when it is deemed safe enough to allow him back on the streets.
The judge told him he would serve a minimum eight-and-a-half years before being eligible for parole but Crown sources said: “It’s highly unlikely he will ever get out of prison.”
Heather, who waived her right to anonymity, spoke of her relief that McMurray has finally been punished after a seven-month wait for sentencing that spanned five court hearings. She said: “It’s been a long wait for justice.
 “Watching him going down the stairs was worth my time today, unlike the other four  times I came to court to see him sentenced and it didn’t happen. 
“I am delighted with the outcome as they’ve told me in court that even after the eight-and-a-half years are up, it’s unlikely he will be released.
“I just wish the other women he abused could have been here to see his face when he was getting sentenced.
“I hope that now they, and me, can start rebuilding their lives.”
As McMurray stood in the dock he smirked at Heather.
She said: “When it sinks in he is facing the rest of his life in prison he won’t be smiling then. Justice has been done even if it has taken a long time.”
McMurray preyed on women at various addresses in Fife between 1997 and 2013.
He battered and raped his first victim then indecently assaulted a second woman who was punched, kicked and stabbed with a fork.
He left a third woman so terrified that she jumped out a window to escape.
McMurray battered another woman then savagely beat a sixth victim. She only escaped by climbing down scaffolding.
He was finally brought to justice when the women summoned up the courage to testify against him.
He was convicted last October at the High Court in Edinburgh of 14 charges including rape, abduction and sexual assault.
Prisoners on lifelong restriction orders will only be released once they are no longer considered a risk to public safety.
Even after release, they are subject to supervision and can be recalled to prison for any breach for the rest of their lives.
