 IT is one of the poorest parts of Scotland’s biggest city , blighted by ill-health and pocked with derelict gap sites. 
For 27 years, Jim O’Neill has worked at the Lightburn Medical Centre in &shy;Glasgow’s Carntyne, which has 6000 patients.
Almost half have at least one chronic illness and life expectancy is well below average.
It is a familiar cycle Dr O’Neill, 54, is trying to break.
 As the country prepares to go to the polls , he condemned the austerity cuts which have piled extra pressure on his patients and his workload. 
He said: “I have dealt with three &shy;palliative care patients under the age of 60 in one morning. That’s normal. About 40 per cent of our population have a chronic illness and at least half of those have another condition.
“If you are elderly in this area you are usually quite healthy because you have lived that long.”
Dr O’Neill’s centre serves patients from &shy;Carntyne, Shettleston and Cranhill.
Every day, he sees diabetes, heart &shy;disease, epilepsy, drug and alcohol &shy;problems.
One in three locals has a &shy;disability and the average age at which patients develop chronic diseases is just 50.
But Dr O’Neill said his patients are ignoring their health problems and instead turn to him for help dealing with imposed sanctions and cuts to benefits.
He said: “Austerity measures are having a huge impact on people’s health and my workload. People being sanctioned are turning to me as someone who will listen and care about their situation.
“It could be that someone is here with diabetes and chronic lung disease but all they are concerned about is that they have no money and they have to go to the food banks.”
Dr O’Neill believes patients turn to him for help because he can offer continuity of support and care.
He said: “It isn’t unusual for GPs to be in a surgery all their life and it’s not &shy;unusual for a patient to be registered there all their life, whereas people like social workers and housing officers change all the time.

“People know who their GP is because we are that professional person they know and they know they can trust us. They come to talk to us and that’s fine but we get more and more and it makes it difficult to do all the other things.”
He said the situation has worsened as increasing numbers have been taken off benefits and do not understand how to fill in the paperwork, make online &shy;applications or lodge an appeal.
He said: “Even when I get reports back from benefits agencies explaining what has happened, I don’t understand the documentation coming through.
“Even though I know the patients and I have written down what the problems are, it can be overruled. They have to then go through an appeals system for &shy;something that shouldn’t have happened in the first place.”
Dr O’Neill believes a change of &shy;government would improve the lives of his patients.
He said: “Scotland has already been given additional powers though the Smith Commission. It is up to them to act.
“Health is devolved already and the Scottish health service is completely &shy;different to England and very much the better but so many other things impact on people who live in deprived areas. I think things can change quickly if the focus is there.”
Dr O’Neill said he, and other GPs like him, want to see longer appointments. He said: “What I need is more time with my patients to try and get to the bottom of the problems.
“If my patient has one, two or three chronic conditions and they have other issues like mental health &shy;problems, stress, anxiety, money issues, trying to deal with that in 10 minutes is impossible.”
He also wants more investment in &shy;primary care than building new hospitals or A&amp;E waiting time targets.
He said: “Often the focus in the press is on a new super-duper hospital or A&amp;E. I don’t care about that. If there was more investment in general practice in deprived areas we wouldn’t have to bother about A&amp;E waiting times.”

