EIGHT patients have been at Scotland’s State Hospital for more than a quarter of a century, new figures reveal.
The group, which includes a child killer and a serial rapist, are among 120 patients detained at maximum-security Carstairs.
At an annual cost of more than &pound;200,000 a patient, it means care and treatment has exceeded &pound;5million for each of the eight.
A leading forensic psychiatrist said it was appropriate for some patients to remain in hospital forever – and staff, security and medication meant the costs were known to be “very expensive”.
Figures obtained by the Sunday Mail show Scotland’s eight longest-serving patients have all been at Carstairs since the 1980s or earlier.
A further 13 patients were admitted in the 1990s while 21 were detained between 2000 and 2009.
The majority of patients – 78 – were detained within the last five years. Of these, 42 were admitted last year. This comprised 17 from the courts, 15 from prisons, nine from other hospitals and one from the community.
Dr John Crichton, of the Royal College of Psychiatrists in Scotland, said: “There’s no single reason why patients have very long stays – some are due to ongoing symptoms of illness and the risk they pose.
 

“Compulsion orders can be made without limit of time. For some patients, it’s appropriate for them to remain in hospital forever.”
He added: “Care within forensic mental health services is very expensive – this is an expensive resource for the NHS.
“Medication costs are part of it, as is the maintenance of measures of physical security and the very experienced staff required for these challenging cases.”
The average length of patient stay at Carstairs is around seven years but the two longest-serving patients have been at the Lanarkshire facility since the 1960s.
Sam Glass, 67, was admitted in September 1967 after he indecently assaulted, stabbed and strangled a five-year-old girl earlier that year.
 Paranoid schizophrenic Glass is now being considered for a possible move to the medium-secure  Rowanbank Clinic in the grounds of Glasgow’s Stobhill Hospital. 
 

 Medical staff believe he’s less of a physical threat given his advanced age but poses too much of a risk of reoffending to be released into  the community. 
Serial child rapist James Ferguson, 68, is Carstairs’ second-longest-serving patient, having been sent there in 1969.
The former binman admitted nine attacks on young girls aged two to 11 during a two-year reign of terror in Glasgow in the 1960s.
Detectives suspected him of many more attacks and investigated 19 cases in all.
 The hospital – which has around 700 staff – was recently rebuilt at a cost of around &pound;80million, with the new facility opening three years ago. 
It was revealed last year that the hospital – which is run by its own NHS trust and has an annual budget of around &pound;40million – had a huge overspend and the highest staff absentee rate in the NHS.
 State Hospital patients are admitted under the Mental Health Scotland Act 2003 because of “dangerous, violent or criminal propensities”. 
 The most common primary diagnosis is schizophrenia. 
The average age of patients, all of whom are male, is 41. Any female patients requiring maximum-security care are treated at Rampton Hospital in Nottinghamshire.
A State Hospital spokeswoman said: “Patients are admitted for a minimum of six to eight weeks for assessment. Thereafter, length of stay depends on the individual patient’s care and treatment plan and detention order.”
