  Kirkpatrick 21′  Agnew 78′  
  Stewart 53′  Vaughan 60′  
 Dumbarton and Raith Rovers shared four goals in an end of season thriller in the Scottish Championship. 
 Good passing from Dumbarton resulted in Garry Fleming curling a shot off the post, and Jordan Kirkpatrick tapped in the rebound. 
 Raith turned the game on its head when Mark Stewart equalised before a poor kick by goalkeeper Danny Rogers allowed Lewis Vaughan to lob him. 
 Scott Agnew equalised with a right-foot swerving shot for the Sons. 
    Full Time  Match ends, Dumbarton 2, Raith Rovers 2. 
    Full Time  Second Half ends, Dumbarton 2, Raith Rovers 2. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Raith Rovers. Callum Robertson replaces Mark Stewart. 
 Corner, Raith Rovers. Conceded by Andy Graham. 
 Attempt blocked. Ross Callachan (Raith Rovers) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. 
 Attempt saved. Ross Callachan (Raith Rovers) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
  Booking  Martin Scott (Raith Rovers) is shown the yellow card. 
 Ryan Clark (Dumbarton) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Martin Scott (Raith Rovers). 
 Donald McCallum (Dumbarton) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Rory McKeown (Raith Rovers). 
  Substitution  Substitution, Dumbarton. Ryan Clark replaces Mark Gilhaney. 
 Mitchel Megginson (Dumbarton) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Jason Thomson (Raith Rovers). 
 Foul by Scott Taggart (Dumbarton). 
 Ryan Conroy (Raith Rovers) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Raith Rovers. Martin Scott replaces Ross Matthews. 
 Attempt saved. Ryan Conroy (Raith Rovers) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Attempt missed. Stuart Findlay (Dumbarton) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left following a corner. 
 Corner, Dumbarton. Conceded by Rory McKeown. 
 Foul by Garry Fleming (Dumbarton). 
 Jason Thomson (Raith Rovers) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Hand ball by Paul Watson (Raith Rovers). 
 Attempt saved. Lewis Vaughan (Raith Rovers) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
  Goal!  Goal! Dumbarton 2, Raith Rovers 2. Scott Agnew (Dumbarton) left footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom right corner. Assisted by Mitchel Megginson. 
  Booking  Garry Fleming (Dumbarton) is shown the yellow card. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Raith Rovers. Barrie McKay replaces Grant Anderson. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Dumbarton. Donald McCallum replaces Jordan Kirkpatrick. 
 Attempt missed. Lewis Vaughan (Raith Rovers) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Scott Taggart (Dumbarton) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Grant Anderson (Raith Rovers). 
  Substitution  Substitution, Dumbarton. Mitchel Megginson replaces Chris Turner. 
 Attempt missed. Ross Callachan (Raith Rovers) right footed shot from outside the box misses to the right. 
 Foul by Grant Anderson (Raith Rovers). 
 Mark Gilhaney (Dumbarton) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt saved. Paul Watson (Raith Rovers) header from the centre of the box is saved in the top left corner. 
 Corner, Raith Rovers. Conceded by Scott Linton. 
 Attempt missed. Mark Gilhaney (Dumbarton) right footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left. 
  Goal!  Goal! Dumbarton 1, Raith Rovers 2. Lewis Vaughan (Raith Rovers) right footed shot from more than 35 yards to the high centre of the goal. 
 Attempt missed. Stuart Findlay (Dumbarton) header from very close range is close, but misses to the right following a set piece situation. 
  Booking  Craig Barr (Raith Rovers) is shown the yellow card. 
 Garry Fleming (Dumbarton) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Craig Barr (Raith Rovers). 
 Corner, Raith Rovers. Conceded by Scott Linton. 
 Corner, Raith Rovers. Conceded by Andy Graham. 
 Attempt blocked. Ross Callachan (Raith Rovers) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. 
 Corner, Raith Rovers. Conceded by Scott Taggart. 
 Attempt saved. Ross Callachan (Raith Rovers) right footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the bottom right corner. 
 Garry Fleming (Dumbarton) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Rory McKeown (Raith Rovers). 
  Goal!  Goal! Dumbarton 1, Raith Rovers 1. Mark Stewart (Raith Rovers) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom left corner. Assisted by Lewis Vaughan. 
 Attempt missed. Lewis Vaughan (Raith Rovers) left footed shot from the centre of the box misses to the left. 
 Attempt missed. Lewis Vaughan (Raith Rovers) right footed shot from the centre of the box misses to the left. 
 Attempt missed. Ryan Conroy (Raith Rovers) right footed shot from outside the box is too high. 
   Second Half begins Dumbarton 1, Raith Rovers 0. 
    Half Time  First Half ends, Dumbarton 1, Raith Rovers 0. 
 Corner, Dumbarton. Conceded by Craig Barr. 
 Corner, Dumbarton. Conceded by Paul Watson. 
 Attempt saved. Ross Callachan (Raith Rovers) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Attempt saved. Ryan Conroy (Raith Rovers) right footed shot from a difficult angle on the left is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Attempt missed. Jordan Kirkpatrick (Dumbarton) right footed shot from outside the box is too high. 
 Corner, Dumbarton. Conceded by Ross Callachan. 
 Corner, Raith Rovers. Conceded by Chris Turner. 
 Attempt blocked. Ross Callachan (Raith Rovers) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. 
 Corner, Raith Rovers. Conceded by Stuart Findlay. 
 Corner, Dumbarton. Conceded by David McGurn. 
 Chris Turner (Dumbarton) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Lewis Vaughan (Raith Rovers). 
 Scott Agnew (Dumbarton) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Mark Stewart (Raith Rovers). 
 Mark Gilhaney (Dumbarton) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Ross Callachan (Raith Rovers). 
 Chris Turner (Dumbarton) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Paul Watson (Raith Rovers). 
  Goal!  Goal! Dumbarton 1, Raith Rovers 0. Jordan Kirkpatrick (Dumbarton) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom right corner. Assisted by Garry Fleming. 
 Mark Stewart (Raith Rovers) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Stuart Findlay (Dumbarton). 
 Attempt saved. Garry Fleming (Dumbarton) header from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Attempt saved. Mark Stewart (Raith Rovers) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom right corner. 
 Attempt saved. Lewis Vaughan (Raith Rovers) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top left corner. 
 Lewis Vaughan (Raith Rovers) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Stuart Findlay (Dumbarton). 
 Attempt saved. Jordan Kirkpatrick (Dumbarton) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
   First Half begins. 
 Lineups are announced and players are warming up. 
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
