A business selling cotton shopping bags has been named 2015’s Ayrshire Company of the Year by Young Enterprise Scotland.
The Go Co, which was established and operated by Stewarton Academy, was named overall winner at Young Enterprise Scotland’s Ayrshire finals last week at Troon’s Marine Hotel, with their bag business also receiving recognition for Best Marketing, Best Report and Best Presentation.
Two further trophies went to Kilmarnock’s James Hamilton Academy, with their bespoke decorations company, Aspire, taking the Best Interview category, while the school’s Lorraine Egerton was named Best Link Teacher.
The awards were the culmination of months of hard work by each of the teams with each creating, financing, launching and operating their own business, supported by Link Teachers and by volunteer business advisors from the local community.
The Go Co will now go on to represent Ayrshire at Young Enterprise Scotland’s national finals in Glasgow.
Sixth year pupil and managing director, Jonathan Seaman, 17, from Dunlop, said: “All of the hard work which has gone into the The Go Co has been so worthwhile.
“I’ve loved every stress-filled minute of this fantastic experience and learned so much, gaining experience in dealing with business owners and the public as well as our own team.
“We are absolutely thrilled to win these awards tonight and look forward to representing Ayrshire at the Scottish finals.”
Seventeen-year-old Callum McQuade, managing director of James Hamilton Academy’s Aspire, added: “This has been a brilliant experience and I’d recommend taking part in Young Enterprise to anyone.
“Friendship, life experience, dealing with money, building a business – we’ve all got so much from being part of this.
“As well as our great team, I would also like to give a huge thank you to our business adviser Brian Hill and to our teacher Mrs Egerton for their support and guidance.”
Young Enterprise Scotland (YES) is a not-for-profit organisation and aims to provide the best business experience to students, giving them the opportunity to develop their full potential, raise their confidence and self-esteem, and test out their business skills.
Described as ‘the ultimate business experience for S5 and S6 pupils’, YES’s Company Programme adds value to young people’s senior school experience with opportunities to develop skills in communications, problem solving, presentation skills, leadership skills, decision making, creative thinking and resilience.
Young Enterprise Scotland’s Ayrshire programme is supported by numerous businesses and organisations including Adelie, GE Aviation Services – Caledonian, Hillhouse Quarry Group, the Federation of Small Businesses, Ayrshire College, QTS and the Klin Group.
