  Stevenson 68′  Doolan 82′  Lawless 90′  
 Partick Thistle recorded a third consecutive win to guarantee their top-flight status and cast further doubt over St Mirren's chances of staying up. 
 After dominating the first half, Kallum Higginbotham's cross in the second was headed in by Ryan Stevenson. 
 Kris Doolan then netted his 10th of the season with a half-volley. 
 And Steven Lawless added a low, powerful third from 20 yards in injury time as the Jags made themselves safe in the Premiership in style. 
 It was the first time Thistle have had three successive wins in more than two years. 
 And it was also a fine tribute to 100-year-old fan James Jones, who was in attendance at Firhill, and former kit man James 'Chico' Reilly, who died recently. 
 St Mirren are not yet down and out, but clearly in trouble as they are eight points behind Motherwell with nine left to play for. 
 The physical strength and quick passing of Partick Thistle was too much for St Mirren to get to grips with for the majority of the first half. 
 Excellent interplay between the likes of Higginbotham, Stevenson and Stephen O'Donnell really should have resulted in a goal on more than one occasion. 
 Lyle Taylor - in his second spell at Thistle - shot wide early on before Lawless, so often the creator for the Jags, saw two of his efforts go past a post and over the bar. 
 Even Belgian defender Fred Frans was trying to get in on the goal-scoring act for a second week in a row with a hooked attempt over the shoulder. 
 St Mirren's one serious attack in the opening 45 minutes resulted in a strong penalty claim. Thomas Reilly's perfect, lofted pass had Jason Naismith marauding into the box and the right-back appeared to be bundled over. 
 Referee Craig Thomson looked to his official for a flag but the pair's conclusion was 'no penalty'. 
 After the break, Steven Thompson almost made the most of a mix-up between Conrad Balatoni and Jags goalkeeper Scott Fox, the latter's clearance being charged down by Thompson and spinning wide. 
 But from there on in Partick took control again. Stevenson rose against a previously sturdy Saints defence to head in his seventh of the season before striker Doolan showed his predatory instincts to convert well on the half-volley. 
 And Lawless finished excellently with an arrowed effort past Ridgers after a half-clearance. 
    Full Time  Match ends, Partick Thistle 3, St. Mirren 0. 
    Full Time  Second Half ends, Partick Thistle 3, St. Mirren 0. 
  Goal!  Goal! Partick Thistle 3, St. Mirren 0. Steven Lawless (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom left corner. 
 Corner, Partick Thistle. Conceded by Mark Ridgers. 
 Attempt saved. Gary Fraser (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Corner, Partick Thistle. Conceded by Sean Kelly. 
 Corner, Partick Thistle. Conceded by Sean Kelly. 
 Attempt blocked. Ryan Stevenson (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. 
 Attempt missed. Yoann Arquin (St. Mirren) right footed shot from the centre of the box is too high. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Partick Thistle. Gary Fraser replaces Kallum Higginbotham. 
  Booking  Stephen Mallan (St. Mirren) is shown the yellow card. 
 Stuart Bannigan (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Stephen Mallan (St. Mirren). 
  Goal!  Goal! Partick Thistle 2, St. Mirren 0. Kris Doolan (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom left corner. 
 Corner, Partick Thistle. Conceded by Sean Kelly. 
 Attempt missed. James Dayton (St. Mirren) right footed shot from outside the box misses to the right. 
 Attempt missed. Frederic Frans (Partick Thistle) left footed shot from the centre of the box is too high. 
  Substitution  Substitution, St. Mirren. Alan Gow replaces Thomas Reilly. 
  Substitution  Substitution, St. Mirren. Yoann Arquin replaces Steven Thompson. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Partick Thistle. Kris Doolan replaces Lyle Taylor. 
 Corner, Partick Thistle. Conceded by Adam Brown. 
  Booking  Kallum Higginbotham (Partick Thistle) is shown the yellow card. 
 Foul by Kallum Higginbotham (Partick Thistle). 
 James Dayton (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
  Substitution  Substitution, St. Mirren. Adam Brown replaces Kieran Sadlier. 
  Goal!  Goal! Partick Thistle 1, St. Mirren 0. Ryan Stevenson (Partick Thistle) header from the centre of the box to the top right corner. Assisted by Kallum Higginbotham with a cross. 
 Corner, Partick Thistle. Conceded by Stephen Mallan. 
 Steven Lawless (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Thomas Reilly (St. Mirren). 
 Corner, Partick Thistle. Conceded by Sean Kelly. 
 Foul by Ryan Stevenson (Partick Thistle). 
 Jason Naismith (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Kallum Higginbotham (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Thomas Reilly (St. Mirren). 
 Foul by Lyle Taylor (Partick Thistle). 
 Sean Kelly (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Abdul Osman (Partick Thistle). 
 Stephen Mallan (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt blocked. Steven Thompson (St. Mirren) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. 
 Attempt missed. Stephen Mallan (St. Mirren) right footed shot from the right side of the six yard box is high and wide to the right. 
   Second Half begins Partick Thistle 0, St. Mirren 0. 
    Half Time  First Half ends, Partick Thistle 0, St. Mirren 0. 
 Attempt missed. Ryan Stevenson (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses the top left corner. 
  Booking  Stephen O'Donnell (Partick Thistle) is shown the yellow card. 
 Foul by Stephen O'Donnell (Partick Thistle). 
 Gregg Wylde (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Kallum Higginbotham (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Jeroen Tesselaar (St. Mirren). 
 Attempt missed. Frederic Frans (Partick Thistle) header from the centre of the box is high and wide to the right following a corner. 
 Corner, Partick Thistle. Conceded by Sean Kelly. 
 Foul by Stuart Bannigan (Partick Thistle). 
 James Dayton (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Corner, Partick Thistle. Conceded by Mark Ridgers. 
 Attempt saved. Steven Lawless (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the top right corner. 
 Foul by Ryan Stevenson (Partick Thistle). 
 Jason Naismith (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Corner, Partick Thistle. Conceded by Jack Baird. 
 Attempt blocked. Steven Lawless (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from the left side of the box is blocked. 
 Foul by Lyle Taylor (Partick Thistle). 
 Jack Baird (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Corner, Partick Thistle. Conceded by Sean Kelly. 
 Stephen O'Donnell (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Jeroen Tesselaar (St. Mirren). 
 Attempt missed. Lyle Taylor (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses the top left corner. 
   First Half begins. 
 Lineups are announced and players are warming up. 
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
