 Celtic have won the Scottish Premiership title after nearest challengers Aberdeen lost to Dundee United at Tannadice. 
 After defeating Dundee 5-0 on Friday evening, Celtic knew any points dropped by the Dons would ensure a fourth straight championship. 
 Ronny Deila has secured the league title and the League Cup in his first season in charge of the club. 
 &quot;We have achieved a big thing,&quot; Deila told his club's official website.&nbsp; 
 &quot;Hopefully there will be more and more. 
 &quot;Defensively we have been unbelievable the whole season and we have hardly conceded a goal. Offensively we have been getting better and we scored five beautiful goals against Dundee on Friday night. 
 &quot;We have worked so hard for this and finally we are there and can start thinking of next season. There is always high pressure here and I put high demands on myself as well. 
 &quot;Today we just have to enjoy it and be happy that we are champions. I'm happy with a lot of the work we have done and we are going to enjoy this night and show we are champions next Sunday [against Aberdeen at Pittodrie].&quot; 
 Deila's men are likely to be presented with the Premiership trophy after the home match against Inverness Caledonian Thistle on 24 May. 
 Speaking shortly after the result at Tannadice, Celtic assistant manager John Collins told BBC Scotland: &quot;[It's] great news. 
 &quot;We've had a terrific few months - we deserved to win the league. 
 &quot;I thought Aberdeen would tail off but as every week went by and the months went by they kept picking up the results and they were on our tails all the way. 
 &quot;They put us under a bit of pressure, we kept having to respond and the boys have done that. I think our performances have got better and better.&quot; 
 Deila travelled to Norway for a family occasion after Friday's win and Collins added: &quot;He's got a big day - his children's confirmation today. 
 &quot;He'll be enjoying that but this'll make it an extra special evening for him, no doubt about that.&quot; 
