SHE has already saved the world hundreds of times as a schoolgirl spy in CBBC’s M.I. High and now actress Oyiza Momoh is setting off on a real-life mercy mission.
The 19-year-old, who played secret agent Aneisha Jones in the popular children’s show, is heading to Kenya to teach locals life-saving first aid skills.
Oyiza is one of St Andrew’s First Aid’s top volunteers and will travel to Ndhiwa a town in the west of the country, in June in what the actress admits is her most exciting mission yet.
The former Hutchesons’ Grammar pupil, who spends her spare time helping at rugby matches, festivals and events across the country, said: “I’m really excited about putting my skills to good use. Recent tragedies in Glasgow have reinforced my belief that nobody should die because they needed first aid and didn’t receive it. All you need to know are the basics.
 

“Three other St Andrew’s First Aiders and I have teamed up with First Aid Africa to teach adapted skills in a region of Kenya where resources are limited and ambulances are less than reliable. We hope to train people who will then go on to teach our skills.
 “We will be there for six weeks teaching police officers and community leaders everything from dressing a  burn to dealing with a snake bite victim. It’s going to be great.” 
 

Oyiza, who is raising funds for her trip by staging a ceilidh on her 20th birthday later this month, added: “I had some exciting missions in M.I. High and our African adventure is going to be just as challenging.”
 The keen hockey player, who is in her first year of a neuroscience degree at Glasgow University, says she has  considered a career in medicine but admits her heart is still set on acting. 
She got her first role as a swimmer in a Kellogg’s Frosties ad when she was nine and has been treading the boards and gracing TV screens ever since.
Oyiza, who lives in Glasgow’s west end, revealed that a childhood stutter is the reason she started acting in the first place. She said: “When I was in primary two, my teacher suggested to my mum that I take acting classes to help overcome my stutter and boost my confidence.
“I joined the Glasgow Acting Academy and not long after got a part in the Frosties advert. I still laugh when I see me splashing around with Tony the Tiger on YouTube.
 

“After that, I got a part on The Saturday Show. I played mini Angellica Bell, one of the presenters.
“My mum Tola would love me to be a newsreader but my dream job would be a leading role on Holby City or Casualty, where I could apply my degree and first aid knowledge.”
Oyiza’s biggest break came when she accidentally landed the part in M.I. High.
The actor, whose family are originally from Nigeria, said: “In 2012, I was working on the reception desk of the Glasgow Acting Academy when they were running an open audition for M.I. High.
“They were short of readers and I got drafted in. Next thing I knew, I was at the final audition and being offered a part in the show. It was sheer luck.
“The programme ran for 10 years with a couple of breaks along the way. I played Aneisha Jones in series six and seven and loved every minute of it.”
Oyiza, who has a 16-year-old sister Seyi, added: “The first five series of M.I. High were filmed in England but for the last two they switched to Glasgow. It was a great move. I will always be proud to have been in such a fantastic show and seen it through to its conclusion.”
She has landed a lead part in Des Dillon’s new stage show The C-Word, which is expected to be a sell-out after the success of Singing I’m No A Billy, He’s a Tim.
Oyiza, who scored the highest marks in a national St Andrew’s First Aid competition last year, said: “I start rehearsals soon and the play goes on tour all over Scotland in August.
“I’ve also been offered a place at the National Youth Theatre in London this summer but can’t take it as I’m so busy.”
 To donate to Oyiza’s First Aid Africa fund, see www.bmycharity.com/oyizamomoh 
