  Ashcroft 8′  Kiltie 78′  
  Scotland 24′  MacKinnon 65′  Hasselbaink 70′  
 Hamilton came from a goal down to win at Rugby Park and drag Kilmarnock closer to the relegation play-off spot. 
 Lee Ashcroft headed Kilmarnock in front from Alexei Eremenko's cross as they tried to avert a sixth straight defeat. 
 But Accies fought back, first through Jason Scotland after goalkeeper Craig Samson spilled a Louis Longridge shot. 
 Michael McGovern saved from Killie's Josh Magennis before Darian MacKinnon and Nigel Hasselbaink scored for Accies ahead of Greg Kiltie's late strike. 
 Hamilton started positively having been boosted by their win over Lanarkshire rivals Motherwell last time out. 
 In the opening seconds Manuel Pascali was forced to concede a corner and, from the resultant kick, Chris Johnston was on hand to clear for the home team. 
 But in the eighth minute it was Killie who were to benefit from their first corner of the match. 
 Eremenko swung the ball in from the right and Ashcroft rose highest to put Killie in front with a powerful header from six yards. 
 Eremenko then produced a delightful piece of skill to put the ball in the net again a minute later but the Finnish international was flagged offside. 
 Just beyond the midpoint of the first half, Accies pulled level. Longridge's shot from the edge of the penalty area was only parried by Samson and Scotland reacted quickly to fire home the rebound. 
 Magennis had a chance to put Killie back in front when he was clean through but the Accies goalkeeper McGovern advanced to make a fine save. 
 At the other end Longridge again tested Samson with a right-foot strike. This time the Killie keeper turned the shot round his left-hand post. 
 Too often Longridge was not being picked up by the Killie defence and he again found space to strike a volley which Samson flicked away at his right-hand post. 
 Referee Steven McLean, in charge of his first match since the Josh Meekings controversy in the Scottish Cup semi-final, had another hand-ball penalty appeal to deal with. 
 Magennis tried to chest the ball into the path of Johnston but it came off the hand of Mikey Devlin, who was just a yard away. However, McLean ignored the Killie appeals. 
 Scotland had another opportunity for Accies just before the interval when Longridge again created the opening 18 yards out with a neat pass but the striker blasted high over. 
 Dougie Imrie came close to giving Accies an early advantage in the second half. Cutting in from the right the winger eluded two challenges before driving a left-foot strike which was pushed away for a corner by Samson. 
 Accies took the lead through MacKinnon after a flowing move involving Crawford and Longridge. The latter's cross was only cleared as far as MacKinnon who blasted low into the corner of the net from 19 yards. 
 Their third goal was controversial as substitute Hasselbaink, only on the pitch three minutes, looked suspiciously offside as he got the merest of touches to a Crawford ball into the box as Samson failed to block. 
 It was then the turn of Killie substitute Kiltie to get on the scoresheet with his first goal for the club to get them back in the game. 
 The match ended with numerous players from both sides in a scuffle after Hasselbaink and Ashcroft clashed and the instigators were lucky not to be red carded. 
 Ashcroft seemed to punch the Accies player in the stomach while Hasselbaink reacted with what looked like a head butt. 
 Referee McLean decided a yellow card for both was sufficient. 
    Full Time  Match ends, Kilmarnock 2, Hamilton Academical 3. 
    Full Time  Second Half ends, Kilmarnock 2, Hamilton Academical 3. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Hamilton Academical. Lucas replaces Dougie Imrie. 
 Foul by Ross Barbour (Kilmarnock). 
 Darian MacKinnon (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Lee Ashcroft (Kilmarnock) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Nigel Hasselbaink (Hamilton Academical). 
  Booking  Darian MacKinnon (Hamilton Academical) is shown the yellow card. 
  Booking  Nigel Hasselbaink (Hamilton Academical) is shown the yellow card. 
  Booking  Lee Ashcroft (Kilmarnock) is shown the yellow card. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Hamilton Academical. Stephen Hendrie replaces Kieran MacDonald. 
 Foul by Manuel Pascali (Kilmarnock). 
 Darian MacKinnon (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt missed. Manuel Pascali (Kilmarnock) header from the right side of the six yard box is close, but misses to the left following a corner. 
 Corner, Kilmarnock. Conceded by Louis Longridge. 
 Attempt missed. Josh Magennis (Kilmarnock) right footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the right. 
  Goal!  Goal! Kilmarnock 2, Hamilton Academical 3. Greg Kiltie (Kilmarnock) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom left corner. Assisted by Josh Magennis. 
 Lee Miller (Kilmarnock) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Michael Devlin (Hamilton Academical). 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Ross Barbour. 
 Lee Miller (Kilmarnock) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Jesus Garcia Tena (Hamilton Academical). 
 Attempt saved. Josh Magennis (Kilmarnock) left footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Kilmarnock. Paul Cairney replaces Rory McKenzie. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Kilmarnock. Lee Miller replaces Craig Slater. 
  Goal!  Goal! Kilmarnock 1, Hamilton Academical 3. Nigel Hasselbaink (Hamilton Academical) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom right corner. Assisted by Ali Crawford. 
 Sammy Clingan (Kilmarnock) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Darian MacKinnon (Hamilton Academical). 
  Substitution  Substitution, Hamilton Academical. Nigel Hasselbaink replaces Jason Scotland. 
  Goal!  Goal! Kilmarnock 1, Hamilton Academical 2. Darian MacKinnon (Hamilton Academical) right footed shot from outside the box to the bottom left corner. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Kilmarnock. Greg Kiltie replaces Chris Johnston. 
 Attempt missed. Grant Gillespie (Hamilton Academical) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Darian MacKinnon (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Mark O'Hara (Kilmarnock). 
 Hand ball by Rory McKenzie (Kilmarnock). 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Craig Samson. 
 Attempt saved. Dougie Imrie (Hamilton Academical) right footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the bottom right corner. 
 Corner, Kilmarnock. Conceded by Michael Devlin. 
 Attempt missed. Dougie Imrie (Hamilton Academical) left footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left. 
   Second Half begins Kilmarnock 1, Hamilton Academical 1. 
    Half Time  First Half ends, Kilmarnock 1, Hamilton Academical 1. 
 Attempt missed. Chris Johnston (Kilmarnock) right footed shot from the right side of the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Attempt missed. Josh Magennis (Kilmarnock) right footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Corner, Kilmarnock. Conceded by Michael Devlin. 
 Sammy Clingan (Kilmarnock) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Louis Longridge (Hamilton Academical). 
 Rory McKenzie (Kilmarnock) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Darren Lyon (Hamilton Academical). 
 Attempt missed. Jason Scotland (Hamilton Academical) right footed shot from the centre of the box is just a bit too high. 
 Foul by Rory McKenzie (Kilmarnock). 
 Louis Longridge (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Corner, Kilmarnock. Conceded by Jesus Garcia Tena. 
 Attempt saved. Louis Longridge (Hamilton Academical) right footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the bottom right corner. 
  Booking  Craig Slater (Kilmarnock) is shown the yellow card. 
 Foul by Craig Slater (Kilmarnock). 
 Darian MacKinnon (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt missed. Mark O'Hara (Kilmarnock) right footed shot from more than 35 yards is close, but misses to the right. 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Craig Samson. 
 Attempt saved. Louis Longridge (Hamilton Academical) right footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the bottom right corner. 
 Attempt saved. Josh Magennis (Kilmarnock) right footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
  Goal!  Goal! Kilmarnock 1, Hamilton Academical 1. Jason Scotland (Hamilton Academical) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the centre of the goal. 
 Attempt saved. Louis Longridge (Hamilton Academical) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom right corner. 
 Foul by Josh Magennis (Kilmarnock). 
 Darren Lyon (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt missed. Michael Devlin (Hamilton Academical) header from the centre of the box is just a bit too high following a corner. 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Craig Slater. 
 Sammy Clingan (Kilmarnock) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Darian MacKinnon (Hamilton Academical). 
 Foul by Josh Magennis (Kilmarnock). 
 Jesus Garcia Tena (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Manuel Pascali (Kilmarnock) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Ali Crawford (Hamilton Academical). 
  Goal!  Goal! Kilmarnock 1, Hamilton Academical 0. Lee Ashcroft (Kilmarnock) header from very close range to the bottom left corner. Assisted by Alexei Eremenko with a cross following a corner. 
 Corner, Kilmarnock. Conceded by Kieran MacDonald. 
 Kieran MacDonald (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Mark O'Hara (Kilmarnock). 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Manuel Pascali. 
   First Half begins. 
 Lineups are announced and players are warming up. 
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
