  Miller 36′  Russell 39′  McManus 83′  
  McDonald 17′  
 Greenock Morton won Scottish League One and promotion to the Championship after defeating Peterhead. 
 Morton started the day top, level on points with Forfar Athletic but with a superior goal difference. 
 However, the Greenock side fell behind to Gary McDonald's effort before Peterhead's Scott Ross was sent off. 
 Michael Miller, Mark Russell and Declan McManus netted for Morton and they took the title by two points after Ayr beat Forfar and Stranraer finished second. 
    Full Time  Match ends, Morton 3, Peterhead 1. 
    Full Time  Second Half ends, Morton 3, Peterhead 1. 
 Attempt missed. Peter MacDonald (Morton) left footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Attempt missed. Peter MacDonald (Morton) left footed shot from the centre of the box is too high. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Morton. Conor Pepper replaces Stefan McCluskey. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Morton. Joe McKee replaces Ross Forbes. 
  Booking  Ross Smith (Peterhead) is shown the yellow card. 
 Declan McManus (Morton) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Ross Smith (Peterhead). 
  Substitution  Substitution, Morton. Ross Caldwell replaces Jamie McCluskey. 
  Goal!  Goal! Morton 3, Peterhead 1. Declan McManus (Morton) right footed shot from the right side of the six yard box to the bottom right corner. Assisted by Mark Russell. 
 Corner, Peterhead. Conceded by Stefan McCluskey. 
 Attempt blocked. Jamie Stevenson (Peterhead) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. 
 Foul by Mark Russell (Morton). 
 Jamie Stevenson (Peterhead) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt saved. Ross Forbes (Morton) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Peterhead. Andy Rodgers replaces Kevin Dzierzawski. 
 Attempt saved. Declan McManus (Morton) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Attempt saved. Jamie Stevenson (Peterhead) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Attempt missed. Ross Forbes (Morton) right footed shot from outside the box is too high. 
 Attempt missed. Rory McAllister (Peterhead) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses the top right corner. 
 Foul by Sean Crighton (Morton). 
 Rory McAllister (Peterhead) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Thomas O'Ware (Morton) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Jamie Stevenson (Peterhead). 
 Sean Crighton (Morton) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Rory McAllister (Peterhead). 
 Attempt saved. Rory McAllister (Peterhead) right footed shot from long range on the left is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Attempt missed. Sean Crighton (Morton) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Corner, Morton. Conceded by Ryan Strachan. 
  Booking  Rory McAllister (Peterhead) is shown the yellow card. 
 Jamie McCluskey (Morton) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Rory McAllister (Peterhead). 
 Lee Kilday (Morton) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Jamie Stevenson (Peterhead). 
 Attempt missed. Sean Crighton (Morton) header from the centre of the box is just a bit too high. 
 Corner, Morton. Conceded by Ross Smith. 
 Attempt saved. Jamie Stevenson (Peterhead) right footed shot from more than 35 yards is saved in the centre of the goal. 
  Booking  Jamie McCluskey (Morton) is shown the yellow card. 
 Steven Noble (Peterhead) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Jamie McCluskey (Morton). 
 Attempt blocked. Peter MacDonald (Morton) header from the centre of the box is blocked. 
 Corner, Morton. Conceded by Ross Smith. 
 Attempt missed. Declan McManus (Morton) left footed shot from the left side of the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Attempt missed. Thomas O'Ware (Morton) right footed shot from the centre of the box is high and wide to the left. 
 Corner, Morton. Conceded by Jamie Stevenson. 
 Attempt missed. Declan McManus (Morton) right footed shot from outside the box is too high. 
 Stefan McCluskey (Morton) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Jamie Stevenson (Peterhead). 
  Substitution  Substitution, Peterhead. David Cox replaces Jamie Redman. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Peterhead. Jamie Stevenson replaces Nicky Riley. 
 Corner, Peterhead. Conceded by Ross Forbes. 
 Foul by Thomas O'Ware (Morton). 
 Rory McAllister (Peterhead) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt saved. Jamie McCluskey (Morton) right footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
   Second Half begins Morton 2, Peterhead 1. 
    Half Time  First Half ends, Morton 2, Peterhead 1. 
 Declan McManus (Morton) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Jamie Redman (Peterhead). 
 Attempt saved. Stefan McCluskey (Morton) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
  Goal!  Goal! Morton 2, Peterhead 1. Mark Russell (Morton) left footed shot from outside the box to the top right corner. 
 Attempt saved. Ross Forbes (Morton) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
  Booking  Ryan Strachan (Peterhead) is shown the yellow card. 
 Peter MacDonald (Morton) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Ryan Strachan (Peterhead). 
  Goal!  Goal! Morton 1, Peterhead 1. Michael Miller (Morton) right footed shot from outside the box to the bottom right corner. Assisted by Ross Forbes. 
 Attempt saved. Declan McManus (Morton) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Attempt missed. Mark Russell (Morton) left footed shot from the left side of the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Foul by Jamie Redman (Peterhead). 
 Stefan McCluskey (Morton) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Ross Forbes (Morton) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Dean Cowie (Peterhead). 
 Steven Noble (Peterhead) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Ross Forbes (Morton). 
 Foul by Declan McManus (Morton). 
 Gary McDonald (Peterhead) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Attempt missed. Mark Russell (Morton) left footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Foul by Declan McManus (Morton). 
 Dean Cowie (Peterhead) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Attempt saved. Rory McAllister (Peterhead) right footed shot from more than 35 yards is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Corner, Morton. Conceded by Steven Noble. 
 Peter MacDonald (Morton) hits the left post with a right footed shot from very close range. 
  Dismissal  Scott Ross (Peterhead) is shown the red card for a bad foul. 
 Foul by Scott Ross (Peterhead). 
 Declan McManus (Morton) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Mark Russell (Morton) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Nicky Riley (Peterhead). 
  Goal!  Goal! Morton 0, Peterhead 1. Gary McDonald (Peterhead) header from the left side of the six yard box to the bottom right corner. Assisted by Steven Noble with a cross. 
 Corner, Peterhead. Conceded by Mark Russell. 
 Attempt missed. Rory McAllister (Peterhead) right footed shot from the right side of the box is too high. 
 Attempt missed. Declan McManus (Morton) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Attempt blocked. Jamie McCluskey (Morton) right footed shot from the right side of the box is blocked. 
 Corner, Morton. Conceded by Ross Smith. 
 Foul by Peter MacDonald (Morton). 
 Scott Ross (Peterhead) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Hand ball by Declan McManus (Morton). 
 Corner, Peterhead. Conceded by Ross Forbes. 
 Corner, Morton. Conceded by Graeme Smith. 
 Attempt saved. Sean Crighton (Morton) header from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Corner, Morton. Conceded by Graeme Smith. 
 Rory McAllister (Peterhead) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Thomas O'Ware (Morton). 
   First Half begins. 
 Lineups are announced and players are warming up. 
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
