A FANTASIST who posed as a commando hero to trick his way into a major British Legion fundraising campaign has been exposed and booted out in disgrace.
James Heron O’Hara, 42, told Royal British Legion Scotland he served more than six years in the Royal Marines and was wounded in action with Arbroath-based 45 Commando in Iraq.
He claimed a vehicle he was in was blown up by insurgents and he was then shot in the back during a firefight with the terrorists.
O’Hara claimed he had to have his spleen removed and endured a string of other operations.
He added that he had to battle post traumatic stress disorder and a drink problem as he struggled to readjust to civilian life.
O’Hara’s lies won him a place on the campaign, but he was dropped before its launch and sent packing after an anonymous tip-off to the charity.
 

And the Daily Record can now reveal his true background – he’s a part-time actor whose Facebook page is littered with links to drug websites including Herban Legends in Seattle, Hash Paras and DobleZero Growshop.
The page also features photos of O’Hara appearing at an event at the Citizens Theatre in Glasgow last year – and one of him smoking a large hookah-style pipe.
His profile page says he works offshore and says there were “military units and weapons” in his past.
But after a full search of their database, a Ministry of Defence source said they had no record of an individual with O’Hara’s details.
The British Legion first came into contact with O’Hara when they were looking for actors for an online advertising drive.
During discussions, he mentioned he had served with the Royal Marines and bosses signed him up for a photoshoot.
 Before the launch, he sent them details of his supposed military background, including a service history and some quotes,  which were used in the campaign press release. 
O’Hara also sent two photos he said were of himself – a grainy picture of a soldier wearing a green beret and camouflage uniform, and an image of a uniformed man in a desert, with his face covered, next to a dog wearing sunglasses.
The CV said O’Hara was in 45 Commando for more than six years and served in Bosnia, Northern Ireland, Sierra Leone, the Congo and Iraq.
And it claimed: “While out on patrol in Iraq the vehicle was blown to one side and a shot fired into James’s back.
“He lost his spleen. James, from Glasgow, had surgery on his stomach several times.
“After he was medically discharged in 1998, James found it hard to settle back into civilian life.
“He was struggling with sleep and drinking heavily. At his lowest point he suffered extreme paranoia and tried to commit suicide.”
The release claimed O’Hara was diagnosed with bipolar PTSD – Post Traumatic Stress Disorder – and said he was now coping with the help of cycling.
O’Hara told the charity: “Things were getting out of hand. I was living out all these memories in my head. I ended up sleepwalking. I felt lonely and would drink to get out of the house. I was blacking out.
“Being able to talk to someone made a big difference. It saved me.
“Now I have good days and bad but most of the time I feel like I can just get on with my life.
“I loved the time I served and would do it again. But we have more to do to make sure veterans know it’s OK to ask for help.
“It’s still often seen as a weakness to ask for help.”
Legion Scotland conducted their own investigation and dropped O’Hara from the campaign.
Chief executive Kevin Gray said yesterday: “We always ensure veterans or supporters who feature in our publicity give consent and are treated with utmost care and sensitivity.
“We work with them in good faith and make sure it’s appropriate for them to take part in raising awareness about our services or campaigns.”
Kevin added: “We are very grateful to all those who support the charity by helping us spread the word in the media.
“Some people we work with, through the services we provide or who have been referred to us, can be vulnerable.
“Veterans, volunteers and supporters often help us raise awareness about what we do, in the same way that supporters help any charity.
“Our services are about supporting Scotland’s veterans so that no veteran is alone or without support or comradeship.
“Our campaigns help us deliver those services, to support veterans who want to get on with a fulfilling life after service and those who need a helping hand.”
When the Record spoke to O’Hara, he claimed he served in the Marines under a different name to the one he gave the Legion and is registered at the flat where he lives.
Clearly rattled, he refused to reveal the other identity he said he used and declined to answer any more questions.
As he wheeled his bike into the common close of his flat, he would only say: “It was a different name I was in them [the Marines]. You don’t know what name I was in.”
 Try your hand at our news quiz 

