A VICTIM of horrifying sex attacks at the hands of a Children’s Panel boss today opens his heart to the Record in a bid to expose Scotland’s secret shame of institutional child abuse.
Dad-of-four John Stewart, 42, has waved his anonymity after winning a 14-year fight to see beast Daniel Ross - the very man who should have been protecting him as a vulnerable youngster in the 1980s - finally brought to justice.
Ross, 62, who was also a special police constable, is facing jail after being found guilty of abusing his position as a Chairman of Glasgow’s Children’s Panel to groom youngsters for sickening sex attacks.
In one case he abused a teenager in his office moments before a meeting to decide the youngster’s future.
Some of Ross’s victims only came forward after the Record revealed his arrest in November 2013.
 

And John - who had his appendix removed as a 14-year-old after being sodomised by Ross and passed around his paedophile ring of friends - believes the case is the tip of a gruesome iceberg that goes to the heart of Scotland’s establishment.
The married dad-of-four said: “I am overwhelmed with relief to see Ross finally brought to justice, but at the same time I am angry that it has taken all these years for that to happen.
“The easy thing would be to stay behind the scenes, but I want to speak out because I believe that there are hundreds of other victims in Scotland who were abused as children by people in positions of power.
“We have all seen what has happened in Rotherham and in London where a trickle of stories about institutional abuse has turned into a flood, and I think the same thing will happen in Scotland.”
John, from Bridgeton in Glasgow’s East End, added: “When I was 13-years-old I was dogging school all the time and ended up meeting Daniel Ross through the Children’s Panel.
“Ross said he would give me a part time job at his cafe in Mount Florida to keep me out of trouble.
“At the time I thought he was a good guy, that he wanted to help me, but I soon realised he had other motivations.
“The abuse started quite soon after I started working at the cafe, he would touch me and make me touch him.
“On the one occasion he sodomised me I was in so much abdominal pain afterwards that my mother took me to hospital.
“I was too scared to tell the doctors the truth, and they assumed it was appendicitis, and I ended up having my appendix removed.
“At the time Ross warned me that if I told anyone he would make sure I was sent to a children’s home, and so I had better keep quiet.
“Ross soon began passing me around three or four of his friends, the abuse went on for at least two years, I suppose you could call it a paedophile ring.
“Ross was supposed to be protecting young people like me, but instead he was using his position to get his claws into vulnerable children.”
Ross began abusing one of his victims from the age of 14 in the 1990s, and John from the age of 13 in the 1980s.
His first victim, now aged 55, was sexually assaulted in the late 1970s.
He was found guilty of six sexual abuse charges at the High Court in Glasgow on Friday. Sentence was deferred and he was remanded in custody.
Ross’s trial heard how he abused his senior position at the Children’s Panel to prey on a teenage boy at its offices in the city’s Albion Street in the 1990s.
That victim, now aged 38, recalled how he had been in care since the age of 11 and ended up before the children’s panel due to his problems at the time.
He said that Ross abused him for the first time before a children’s panel hearing in Albion Street in a room next to where the panel was to be held.
The court was told that as Ross continued to molest the boy, he told him that “because of his position” he would “deny” what happened.
Police initially investigated Ross in 2001 after John reported him, but no charges were brought.
In 2012 he went back to the police again after the Jimmy Savile scandal made him determined to bring the pervert to justice.
This time around detectives took him seriously, and when the Record reported Ross’s arrest in November 2013, along with his friend Donald Finlayson, other victims came forward.
Finlayson died aged 55 before he could be brought to trial.
Unemployed John added: “I lost my childhood as a result of Ross’s abuse, most people get to have a childhood, but I had mine taken from me.
“I kept fighting for justice because I knew I wasn’t his only victim.
“I know that there are hundreds of victims out there of other people like Ross, but these people will continue to get away with it so long as victims are to scared to come forward.
“It is incredible how powerful people can protect themselves and how things can be covered up for years until someone is brave enough to stand up to them.
“I just want to get on with my life now, I have put everything on hold while I have been fighting this.
“I am a lucky man to have come through it and have a great wife and children and I want to put it behind me and get on.”
Survivors of historical child abuse have expressed concerns about the future of a long-awaited public inquiry after the Scottish Government postponed a key announcement on its chairperson earlier this month.
Education secretary Angela Constance had been expected to name the chair and outline the remit of the inquiry in a statement to parliament last week.
But the announcement has now been put off until after the general election, raising fears among campaigners that the scope of the inquiry is to be reduced.
