 WHEN doctors told cancer survivor Claire Naismith her illness meant she’d never be able to have children , she feared her dreams of a family had been shattered forever. 
Diagnosed with ovarian cancer at only 28, both her ovaries and fallopian tubes had to be removed to save her life.
But now, thanks to a close family bond, Claire still has the chance of experiencing the miracle of motherhood.
Her cousin Donna Riddell has started the process of having her eggs harvested, so they can be frozen for Claire to use in the future.
Claire, 30, said: “I didn’t even ask Donna to do it. She offered because she knew I was so devastated at the idea that I’d never be a mum.
 “Getting cancer so young was a massive blow but to then find out it had robbed me of the chance of having my own baby as well was utterly devastating. 
“I can’t thank Donna enough. Having her eggs frozen for me not only gives the chance of having a family, it gives me a future.”
With three kids of her own – John, 13, Aiden, 12, and eight-year-old Kayla – full-time mum Donna knows the joy her own family has brought her and couldn’t bear the thought that Claire would miss out.
She said: “Claire and I are very close, we’re like sisters. It felt like the most natural thing in the world to offer to do this for her.
“My children are a part of me. I can’t imagine what life would be like without them and if there was anything I could do to ensure that Claire didn’t miss out, then I wanted to help.”
Donna, 33, of Parkhead, Glasgow, will have a series of self-administered injections to stimulate the production of multiple eggs and will then have them harvested under sedation before they’re taken away and frozen for Claire.
Claire’s womb was unaffected by her surgery, so she’s hopeful she will one day be able to carry a baby. But if that turns out not to be possible, Donna has gone one step further and offered to be a surrogate.
She added: “I’d do anything to help Claire and if that means carrying a baby for her, I’d be happy to do it.”
Claire, of Scotstoun, Glasgow, is single at the moment but says having Donna’s eggs on ice makes her more hopeful for the future.
She said: “I’m not seeing anyone just now but when I do meet the right person, I know that having babies will be an option for us.
“It’s crazy that I’m having to think along these lines just now, but that’s what happens when cancer comes into your life. The huge thing now is that I have options and that’s all thanks to Donna.”
The cousins also share another goal – completing this year’s Cancer Research UK Race for Life at Glasgow Green and raising as much money as they can to beat cancer sooner.
Claire said: “My treatment has got me where I am today but not everyone is so lucky.
“The work that Cancer Research UK do to try to find a cure is so important.”
Claire had been troubled by endometriosis since her late teens and had to have surgery to have cysts removed.
At the beginning of 2013, she began to experience stomach pains so excruciating she could barely stand, making her job as a hairdresser virtually impossible.
 

At a doctor’s visit in February that year, her GP sent straight for an ambulance to take her to Glasgow’s Royal Infirmary where an ultrasound detected a huge mass on her left ovary, later found to weigh 4.5lb.
Before the surgery, doctors prepared Claire for the worst, admitting they didn’t know what they’d have to remove.
She awoke to the devastating news that not only was the growth cancerous but that her ovaries and fallopian tubes had been taken away too.
She said: “It was the worst news imaginable. I was only 28 and couldn’t get my head round it. I just cried and cried.”
The news came as a massive blow to Claire’s mum Diana, 51, who had lost her husband Alec to leukaemia when Claire was nine.
 Claire said: “Mum and I had seen what cancer does to people and we knew what was to come. I think that probably made my  diagnosis harder to deal with.” 
After removing the tumour – the size of a melon – Claire’s doctors recommended a course of chemotherapy and she was pumped with drugs weekly for the following eight months.
As a hairdresser, she found that losing her hair was particularly difficult.
She said: “I’ve always had long hair and, working in such a looks-important industry, I was upset when it started to fall out.
“I decided the only thing to do was shave it off, Britney style.
“I got my clippers ready and sat in front of the TV the same night that Jessie J shaved her hair on screen for Comic Relief.
“I shaved mine off with her, it was so hard. I always wore wigs after that and never took any pictures of me without them. I couldn’t bear to.”
At the end of her treatment, Claire got the all-clear on August 16 – her mum Diana’s birthday.
She added: “Mum said it was the best birthday present she’s ever had. We just hugged each other and cried.”
Unfortunately, Claire had to give up her hair salon because of her illness and has had to survive on benefits since.
But as her health improves, she’s looking to the future and wants to take a course in semi-permanent make-up so she can help boost the confidence of other patients by offering eyebrow tattooing.
She said: “Having cancer and having my fertility compromised has given me a new outlook on life.
“I’m far more outgoing and live by the saying, ‘You only live once’. You’ve got to make the most of every opportunity life throws at you.
“After getting through my treatment and now with my cousin helping me to one day have a family, I feel I’ve got a lot to be thankful for.”

