EDDIE Izzard has hit out at &quot;violent&quot; and &quot;aggressive&quot; nationalist protesters as scuffles broke out when he campaigned in Scotland with Labour's Jim Murphy.
The cross-dressing comedian teamed up with the Scottish Labour leader in the centre of Glasgow this morning.
But protesters, some waving SNP leaflets, attempted to drown them out, branding Murphy a &quot;traitor&quot; and a &quot;warmongerer&quot;
Scuffles broke out as the protesters disrupted the event, chanting &quot;Red Tories out&quot; at the Scottish Labour leader.
All the latest General Election news

Mr Murphy said: &quot;This sort of aggressive nationalism should have no place in our election.
&quot;We've got a few days until we can kick David Cameron out of office, a few days to change our country forever and we won't be silenced by this form of aggressive nationalism, it's anti-democratic.&quot;
 
Scotland's flag and streets don't belong to any one political cause. Labour won't be silenced by ugly and aggressive nationalism.

He added: &quot;This isn't the type of Scotland we want, Scotland, the Labour Party and the people of Scotland are much better than this sort of aggressive nationalism.
&quot;On Thursday we'll stand up to this anti-democratic street nationalism, and get David Cameron out of office with a vote for the Labour Party.&quot;
 

Izzard said: &quot;It's OK having different opinions, but everyone should be able to put their opinion forward. This aggressive, this violent emotion, why violence? Don't have violence, we should just put our point of view forward and then everyone makes their choice on Thursday.&quot;
The comedian, who was wearing a dark skirt suit with a red rosette, added: &quot;This is democracy, it's all about voting. They should let the democratic process happen, it's called democracy, we're putting forward a point of view, we're asking people to vote Labour and they're scared of these words being heard.
&quot;Why are they scared of that? Let everyone have their say. It's called democracy.&quot;
Murphy got a little bit tongue-tied at last night's Scottish Leaders' Debate - watch the clip here
Try today's quick quiz:

