A GLASGOW school has signed up to a scheme tapping alumni to inspire the next generation of academic and career success.
St Andrew’s Secondary joined the Future First charity initiative, which works to motivate young people from more than 400 state schools across the UK.
The school recently invited back alumni Stacey Vickers, now studying for a Masters at Glasgow University before going into teaching, Sharon White, a doctor specialising in diabetes and Dundee radio presenter Chris Duke who took part in sessions aimed at encouraging students to aim high and realise their potential.
Gerry Lyons, headteacher at St Andrew’s Secondary, said: “It’s great for young people to learn about what their predecessors at the school have achieved and be inspired by that. Former pupils have gone on to become doctors or do well in business, among many other things.
&quot;Listening to what they have to say will help current pupils make the right choices when looking at their own career options. The programme highlights the fact that you can achieve great things coming from this school and that’s a strong message for young people to hear when they are considering their futures.”
St Andrew’s is keen to hear from other former students who can support the current generation as career and education role models, work experience providers, mentors, governors, fundraisers and donors.
 

Alumnus Chris Duke said: “It was great being back at my old school, but being able to help the next batch of young people make such an important decision in their life is just incredible. It's a great project that I wish we had when we were younger.&quot;
Alex Shapland-Howes, managing director of Future First, said 39 per cent of state school students don’t know anyone in a job they’d like to do.
Mr Shapland-Howes said: “If they see that someone who went to the same school, grew up in the same community has achieved a fulfilling and satisfying job, it helps them see it’s possible for them too. It’s really important for all students to be motivated to succeed in the working world and hearing first hand from relatable people in interesting jobs can make a huge difference.”
 The Future First venture in Scotland is supported by Shawbrook Bank. 
