WHATEVER the result of the election on Thursday, my job will be to stand up for Glasgow.
But that task is made so much harder when we have a Tory government working against us.
I get angry when I hear some people say that it doesn't matter who is in power. From often painful experience we Glaswegians know that is simply not true.
When Labour was last in power in Britain, Glasgow's massive housing debt was removed from the backs of our tenants and redistributed to the much broader shoulders of the UK taxpayer.
Gordon Brown did that. Until that point 55p of every &pound;1 paid in rent in Glasgow went towards servicing Glasgow's housing debt.
As a direct result of Labour policy &pound;1.3billion has been available to spend in recent years on improving GHA homes across our city. Tens of thousands of families have benefited from new kitchens, bathrooms, secured doors, double glazing, cladding, central heating and new roofs.
The current Tory government, for their part, gave us the &quot;bedroom tax&quot;, which Labour will immediately abolish if we win the election on Thursday.
When Labour was last in power there was a record reduction in pensioner and child poverty in this city and across the country, at the same time as child poverty was increasing throughout the developed world. This was achieved by Labour through the introduction of tax credits.
The Cameron/Osborne government instead has cut taxes for millionaires and has overseen a ten-fold increase in the number of families in our country who rely on foodbanks.
Under the Tories there has been a huge increase in people working on exploitative zero-hours contracts.
So Labour will ban exploitative zero-hours contracts and protect tax credits. And we will increase the minimum wage to at least &pound;8 per hour and will actively promote the Living Wage.
If elected on Thursday, Labour will tax bankers' bonuses, introduce a mansion tax on properties worth &pound;2million or more, and we will increase the upper rate of tax to 50p for those earning at least &pound;150k.
Most of this additional money will be raised in the south-east of England. It will be spent in Scotland and across the UK.
In Scotland, Labour will use this money to guarantee a job or apprenticeship for our young people, fund an additional 1000 nurses and 500 doctors for our NHS, increase by &pound;1,000 the bursaries paid to students from poorer backgrounds, and end the need for foodbanks by tackling the causes of poverty.
In short, Labour's better plan will make the wealthiest pay more to protect our NHS and education, and ensure that people have a fair chance to make a decent living.
That is because Scotland and the whole of Britain only succeeds when working people succeed.
On May 7 we have the power to kick out the Tories and elect a Labour government that, just as in the past, will tackle the social problems of the day and make Britain fairer.
We can choose a government that will work for us instead of only the privileged few.
Or we can risk a vote for the SNP. This will cost Labour seats and help the Tories to emerge as the largest party across Britain and so cling on to power.
I don't want to spend the next five years distracted by arguments about another independence referendum. We need to move on.
And I don't want to waste another minute protesting against a Tory government.
Instead, I want to kick the Tories out and let Labour get on with delivering policies that will save the NHS, create jobs for our young people and make work pay.
There is only one way to get a Labour government. And that is to vote Labour.
That is so obvious it should hardly need to be said. But our political opponents are spending the election campaign talking about deals and pacts after the election rather than focussing on the issues that matter to struggling families.
There will be no deal between Labour and the SNP. No chance. Because the truth is the last thing in the world the SNP wants is a successful Labour government across Britain. What would they be able to complain about then?
The SNP calculates that nasty Tory policies like the bedroom tax are a great opportunity for them to argue that Britain is failing and that the solution to this and every other problem is independence.
For our part, Labour sees Tory policies as an affront to social justice that we will reverse when we are next in government.
How could anyone agree to a pact with Alex Salmond when the SNP's whole purpose is to prove that Westminster cannot deliver for the people of Scotland?
They don't want Westminster to work in the interests of Scottish families. They want it to fail so they can agitate for another referendum.
Instead, Labour will fight for every vote between now and 10pm on Thursday. We have a better plan which is fully costed and will deliver the change Glasgow, Scotland and Britain needs.
If we win we will form the government and proudly put forward our Labour policies in parliament. The SNP wouldn't dare to vote with the Tories to bring down another Labour government just as they did in 1979. Or would they?
Don't risk another five years of the Tories. And let's not waste more divisive years talking about another referendum. Let's instead focus on our NHS, jobs and ending poverty.
Vote Labour on May 7.
