A CITY charity is launching its first support evening in Glasgow to meet others living with secondary breast cancer.
Breast Cancer Care has set up the group for those who have been diagnosed as incurable, when people can feel isolated and have unanswered questions about living with the disease.
The charity said talking openly with those who understand what it means to live with secondary breast cancer can be vital, whether it’s the initial diagnosis, tips for day-to-day challenges or side effects of treatment.
Vivienne Welsh, 47, from Glasgow was first diagnosed with breast cancer more than 10 years ago. In 2013 doctors told her the disease had spread and was incurable.
She said: “To hear that my breast cancer was inoperable and incurable totally knocked it out of me. I could only think about my family and daughter. It was a very dark time for me.
“I was given information about a Living with Secondary Breast Cancer group nearby by my nurse. As soon as I went I knew it was the best thing I had done on my cancer journey. It was an amazing breath of fresh air, meeting people who knew what I was going through. So I’m really excited about the new evening course and I look forward to joining.”
The first evening group will meet on Tuesday, May 5 at 6pm at the Radisson Blu Hotel in Argyle Street.
A daytime group has been running for more than five years but is now expanding to the evening to meet demand and offer flexibility of when to attend.
The charity’s Angela Harris said: “We want our Living with Secondary Breast Cancer group to be as accessible as possible and knew that some people found it difficult to make it along to the daytime events. The new evening group will help us to be there whenever people have any questions or need someone to talk to.”
Every other month the sessions offer a unique opportunity to hear from experts covering topics such as the latest treatments, pain management and side effects and to have any questions answered in a relaxed setting.
The groups are free of charge, but anyone interested in attending must register in advance by contacting a member of Breast Cancer Care’s Services team on 0345 077 1893 or secondaryservices@breastcancercare.org.uk to guarantee a place.
