A DRIVER who killed an 11-year-old girl in a hit and run crash while under the influence of drugs has been jailed for 12 years and three months.
Christopher Hannah, 33, was also banned from driving for life when he was sentenced at the High Court in Livingston today.
Hannah, who was high on drugs, ploughed into Sophie Brannan, her friend and uncle as they walked along the pavement in Maryhill, Glasgow.
His car mounted the pavement on November 14 last year and Sophie died the following day from her injuries.
Father-of-three Hannah pleaded guilty to culpable homicide at the high court in March.
Detective inspector Colin Hailstones said: “This was an appallingly tragic case. Many people in the community in Maryhill were deeply affected by this incident, particularly as it resulted in the death of young Sophie Brannan, whose life was sadly taken away from her at the age of 11 and at the hands of someone under the influence of drugs.”
Judge Lord Bannatyne told Hannah that it was tragic that he had taken a young life away and that Sophie Brannan’s family would never get over her death.
Family and friends of Sophie attended court to hear Hannah’s fate – many wearing pink t-shirts bearing the words “Soph’ and “Justice”. 
Hannah’s hired Vauxhall Astra mounted the pavement and struck Sophie in Sandbank Street, Maryhill - her friend Chelsea Sommerville, 10, and Chelsea’s uncle, Joseph Lloyd, were also badly injured.
Witnesses claimed Hannah, said to be a heroin addict, was “under the influence of some substance” at the time of the accident.
He lost control of the car and fully mounted the pavement before hitting the gable end of a nearby building.
The car continued to career forward eventually ploughing into Sophie and the two people with her from behind.
Sophie was taken by ambulance to the Royal Hospital for Sick Children at Yorkhill where she was found to have swelling to her brain, several fractures and broken bones.
She remained in intensive care overnight but was pronounced dead on the morning of November 15.
The court heard that Chelsea suffered a serious leg break which will require long-term physiotherapy.
Her leg was still in plaster several months after the tragedy.
Chelsea’s uncle also suffered a number of fractures, and eventually required surgery. He is likely to suffer “long-term restriction” of movement in his right shoulder.
The accused told police in a phone call later the same day: “I’m sorry - I didn’t mean to do it. It was a total accident. I lost control of the car and I panicked.”
As well as culpable homicide, Hannah also pleaded guilty to dangerous driving, attempting to defeat the ends of justice and possessing heroin.
It emerged he already had 14 previous convictions for crimes including having an offensive weapon and road traffic charges.
He was on bail at the time.
Have you visited our new Scottish food and drink site?
