Lord Smith of Kelvin says he hopes to use his contacts in the business world to help finish the job of regenerating Rutherglen.
Having accepted the role as chair of the Clyde Gateway board, Lord Smith set out his early vision for what he hopes to achieve this week.
Speaking as Clyde Gateway announced 550 homes constructed on the site of the former Dalmarnock Power Station, Lord Smith admitted he didn’t know much about the project before he took on the role, but was excited by what was happening.
The Reformer was the only newspaper invited to send a reporter to speak to Lord Smith on Monday, just after he chaired his first ever meeting of the board.
In his first press interview on his new role, the man who helped deliver Glasgow’s Commonwealth Games last year, said: “I like challenges, I’ve taken on a few.
“If you’re asked to do something and there’s a challenge there I find that very stimulating.
“I’m very lucky that I’m in a position where people ask me to do these things and I’m just delighted to have been asked to take this one on with good people, a good project, good plans, good ideas, great board papers, and I don’t really say that often, so I’m really excited for the future.
“Throughout my career, internationally and here in Scotland, I have got reasonable contacts to the extent I can use them to help the good work that is happening here. That’s one of the reasons I guess I’ve been asked to do this.
“We talked today about sovereign wealth funds, about oversees investors, real oversees investors, not in Europe, not in the UK, not in Scotland but real outside people coming in and investing and I think there’s something I could bring to that party, to try and attract people from the middle east, people from the far east or wherever to invest in Glasgow and South Lanarkshire.”
Having just finished his first board meeting, Lord Smith was full of praise for what he had already seen.
“It’s tremendous, a very, very impressive group of people, and very good board papers as well and I’ve done more boards than you could shake a fist at.”
As well as heading the Commonwealth Games delivery, Lord Smith is also well known for his role in gaining cross-party consensus on more powers for Scotland.
But while Clyde Gateway may not grab as many headlines as the Smith Commission, he said he was delighted to take on the role, even if his knowledge at first was limited.
“They came and said ‘look, would you do this’ and I was just delighted to do it.
“I remember Stuart Patrick (chief executive of the Chamber of Commerce) saying to me, we’re past the regeneration stage now, it’s now a success story that we’re building on. It’s the next stage.
“They’re building offices now and people are coming, real businesses. Once you get real businesses you get jobs and once you get jobs, everything flows from that; education , health and so on, well being.
“The important thing is to get industry, commerce and wealth creating , job creating people into the area and that’s happening.
“(I didn’t know) a huge amount in detail (about Clyde Gateway).
“I had obviously heard of them. We knew they were involved with the housing, the athletes village being handed over, but everywhere we went in this area we had seen evidence of Clyde Gateway doing various things, and of course you read, in any national news, for example the Police headquarters coming to here.”
Finally, Lord Smith talked about the challenges that have faced the group, and said Rutherglen remained an integral part of the Clyde Gateway area.
“Here are sites that used to be shipbuilding , used to be heavy engineering, used to be steel making, to be all sorts of things.
“A lot of the ground was left in a state where people could not build on them. A lot contamination has to be remediated and it’s all that ground breaking work that has to be done.
“They clean up sites, get them prepared and then let developers come in and develop things. You want to attract private enterprise in as much as you can alongside your housing associations or whatever, but we have to do a lot of that remediation work first. Once you’ve done that you start to attract people into the area.
“Shawfield, for example, is going to be a very, very big area so people in South Lanarkshire are not going to be forgotten.”
Remember you can follow the Reformer on Facebook and Twitter
