GLASWEGIANS are being promised as much as &pound;10 million to help first-time buyers on to the property ladder this year.
Glasgow Credit Union has launched a mortgage scheme that will get them into home ownership for as little as &pound;1000 deposit and vowed to make borrowing more accessible.
The credit union - the UK’s largest - is partnering with house builders and government shared equity schemes and guiding applicants through the process.
Almost 700 Glaswegians have been helped into their own homes by the credit union, which currently has &pound;45 million out in home loans. And they’ve promised to pay out &pound;100 if they don’t meet their own service levels.
First time buyers William Morrison and his partner Laura, both 24, are expecting their first child and have just moved into their new home with a Glasgow Credit Union mortgage. William said: “Completing on our first home, just days before Laura gives birth could potentially have been really stressful but the whole purchase has been hassle-free from start to finish.
“I’m really pleased that we can start family life a space to call our own and am glad that the credit union is helping young families like us to own our own homes.”
June Walker, from the credit union, said that High Street banks advertising mortgages with large deposits freeze out young families and they want to help renters with a proven track record of bill management to own property.
She said: “The mortgage market is marginalising young people who want to own homes that fit their needs. This age group can more than afford mortgage repayments and in many cases are spending more on rental accommodation than they would on a mortgage repayment, simply because they haven’t got a large deposit.
“Mainstream banks and mortgage lenders are making much of their low rates in the news, yet only older homeowners with lots of equity or those with large deposits quality for these deals. Glasgow Credit Union aims to make being a homeowner accessible and affordable for this generation, who need suitable housing, now.”
 Glasgow Credit Union has more information on its website . 
