A FRIEND of a man who became an online sensation after posting video clips of Ryan Gosling apparently refusing to eat cereal has said it is &quot;amazing&quot; that the actor responded.
The Hollywood star said his &quot;heart goes out&quot; to the family and friends of Ryan McHenry, who died at the weekend aged 27 after a two-year battle with cancer.
Mr McHenry, who lived in Glasgow, got the idea for the vine video clips while eating cereal and watching Gosling in the hit film Drive and realised that by holding his spoon in front of the screen he could make it appear that the actor was refusing to eat.
He also used the videos to highlight his own struggle with cancer before his death at the weekend.
After the news of his death emerged, Gosling posted a video of himself tucking into a bowl of cereal and told his fans: &quot;My heart goes out to all of Ryan McHenry's family and friends. Feel very lucky to have been a part of his life in some small way.&quot;
Naysun Alae-Carew, 29, a friend of Mr McHenry, said: &quot;It's the most fitting send-off any of his friends or family could have hoped for. It was something he had always talked about.
 
My heart goes out to all of Ryan McHenry's family and friends. Feel very lucky to have been apart of his life in some small way.

&quot;A few weeks ago Ryan Gosling acknowledged the vines for the first time and Ryan McHenry was really happy about it.
&quot;To have this is just amazing and for us and particularly his family it just really validates how much Ryan gave. They are just vines to make people laugh but to have Ryan Gosling respond just shows the effect that Ryan McHenry had on the world.&quot;
A group of the film-maker's friends have set up a page for donations to the cancer charity Sarcoma UK in his memory, saying there was &quot;nothing more appropriate to honour Ryan's life than by making a positive impact on the lives of others suffering from this disease&quot;.
 

The page has already raised more than &pound;3,300 towards its &pound;7,500 target.
Mr Alae-Carew said: &quot;He had always talked to us about wanting to raise money when he was feeling better but that never happened, and we wanted to do something positive in his memory.&quot;
Mr McHenry was originally from Dumfries but later moved to Glasgow.
