Online abuse has left some journalists fearing for their personal safety and could lead to censorship of contentious stories, according to a new survey.
The Strathclyde University pilot study of 35 broadcast, freelance and print journalists found that Twitter was the main source of abuse. 
Some 28% said they had been threatened with violence and a further 5% said their families had been threatened.
The National Union of Journalists (NUJ) called for &quot;zero tolerance&quot; of abuse.
The union's Scottish organiser Paul Holleran said: &quot;In September 2014 the NUJ called for the end to threats and intimidation of journalists reporting on the referendum. 
&quot;We had also, earlier in the year, supported a number of members who had been threatened by football supporters, unhappy at the way stories related to their club were being covered. 
&quot;In recent weeks there has been a spate of attacks on journalists and the union responded, targeting the bullies and demanding a stop to the abuse.&quot;
Mr Holleran said the NUJ was now &quot;stepping up the pressure on the bullies&quot; but also wanted &quot;employers to step up to the plate and stand up for journalists&quot;.
He added: &quot;As we have always stated it is to be expected when journalists are criticised but we draw a line at unacceptable levels of abuse and threats. 
&quot;We will highlight any ongoing attacks and in serious cases we will involve Police Scotland who have always been supportive of our work in this field.&quot;
The Strathclyde University study found that among respondents:
The university found that in some cases, journalists had experienced a form of cyberbullying more than 50 times in the past year. 
Some referred to &quot;death threats&quot; and the need to take additional security precautions both when out and about and at home. 
Many spoke of damage to confidence and self-esteem, and feelings of anger, stress and anxiety.
Dr Sallyanne Duncan, a senior lecturer in journalism at Strathclyde University said: &quot;Our research shows that significant numbers of journalists experience online abuse in their daily work. But it goes beyond that. 
&quot;Social media is a professional tool for journalists, which keeps them connected whether they are at work or at home, and consequently it can be really difficult for them to escape their abusers. 
&quot;They can't switch off their devices without potentially missing a story so the result is that they are constantly a target.&quot;
Dr Duncan said that, as well as personal and professional issues for journalists, there was also a &quot;freedom of expression issue&quot;. 
&quot;Our research has indicated that some journalists might choose to self-censor, avoid contentious stories, or stop using social media in order to avoid their abusers,&quot; she said.
&quot;This could have serious consequences for a free society.
&quot;We plan to carry out more detailed research into the scale of the problem, its impact on journalists and way they do their jobs, and how to address the problems raised.&quot;
