Sorry, we're having problems with our video player at the moment, but are working to fix it as soon as we can
Waiting for Video...
CELTIC are at the centre of a probe involving their training complex, according to reports.
The Sunday Post reported yesterday that Audit Scotland is looking into payments between the club and a number of public bodies, with particular focus on the training ground built in Lennoxtown in 2007.
The financial watchdog is examining a paper trail between Celtic, East Dunbartonshire Council and NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde in connection with the &pound;8.5 million training complex.
The authority has reportedly paid Celtic money over the last 18 months in order to allow the public limited access to the base - but only on select occasions. 
And council bosses have said ‘commercial reasons’ are behind their refusal to make public the figures behind the deal.
Audit Scotland got involved after a number of complaints were received concerning public spending.
A spokesperson for the watchdog told the Post: “We have received several letters on this subject. As such, we have a team of local auditors who are making enquiries into this matter.”
According to the council, members of the public are granted access to some of the pitches on Wednesday nights and at certain stages during the close season.
East Dunbartonshire Council took on the agreement from the Lennoxtown Initiative, a non-profit organisation established by the authority and NHS to help regenerate the area in 2002.
Thomas Glen, the council’s Director of Development and Regeneration said: “East Dunbartonshire Council is a partner on the Lennoxtown Initiative which had a service-level agreement with Celtic Football Club to allow for community access to the Lennoxtown facility.
“The Council provided &pound;68,377.20 in September, 2013, to support the delivery of this agreement. We fully support Audit Scotland in any responsible monitoring of the public pound.”
And an NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde spokeswoman confirmed that they had given relevant information to Audit Scotland, adding: “We are aware that Audit Scotland are looking into this matter and have supplied them with all the relevant information that they have asked for.”
Celtic have been contacted for comment.
