CALLUM MacCRAE insists the sold out signs for this weekend’s Emirate Airlines Rugby 7s can inspire Scotland towards their highest ever world ranking.
The event takes place at Glasgow’s Scotstoun Stadium and the Dark Blues head coach believes a full house will get the chance to help his side claim their best HSBC Sevens World Series standing.
It’s the first international sevens event in Glasgow since last summer's Commonwealth Games with Scotland facing Portugal, Wales and Fiji on Saturday.
And MacCrae is adamant his players will feed off a noisy home support in their attempt to make a bit of history.
He said: &quot;It was great getting the news that the event has sold out.
&quot;As a player, it's a special moment running out to a full house, especially when it's your home support. I'm sure the crowd will help the players find another gear.
&quot;The prospect of completing the competition in the highest position ever for a Scotland 7s team in the World Series is a strong motivator for all the players to finish the job we set out to do at the start of the season.
&quot;Our ranking position hasn't really been at the forefront of our minds for the majority of the Series. We have tried to remain focused solely on the team performances we put in, believing that and the results would follow, but to surpass anything the team has achieved before would be a fantastic reward for the graft the players have put in.
&quot;Representing Scotland is what drives our players. They are a tight knit group who have one thing on their minds, regardless of where we are in the world, and that's to win for Scotland.
&quot;We have great supporters, it's a chance to pay them back by putting in performances and winning in front of them. This is something they can feel part of and, at certain times, influence the game with the noise they bring.”
MacRae has made two changes to the side that won the Hong Kong 7s Bowl and that competed at the last HSBC Sevens World Series event in Tokyo, six weeks ago.
Glasgow Warriors flanker James Eddie comes in for club teammate Fraser Lyle to win his 11th sevens cap, while BT Sport Scottish Rugby Academy Stage 3 player Gavin Lowe replaces Lee Jones and MacRae is convinced the youngster is ready to grab his big chance.
He said: &quot;Gavin has performed very well in training and has the running game to test any defender.
&quot;He is maturing as a player and deserves the opportunity to show how far his game has come this year. I'm looking forward to seeing the influence he can have on our team's play.
&quot;Sevens requires a hard edge and a massive work ethic, James Eddie has both of those qualities in abundance. He put in strong performances in the Port Elizabeth leg.”
Colin Gregor will become Scotland 7s' joint most capped player, when he takes the field this weekend, matching Andrew Turnbull's tally of 57 caps, while Scott Riddell is named captain once again.
Scotland 7s team to compete at Emirate Airlines Rugby 7s, May 9-10 at Scotstoun Stadium: Scott Riddell CAPTAIN, James Eddie (Glasgow Warriors), Gavin Lowe (Glasgow Warriors), James Johnstone, Colin Gregor, Mark Robertson, Damien Hoyland (Edinburgh Rugby), Nyle Godsmark, Joseva Nayacavou, Russell Weir, James Fleming and Chris Dean (Edinburgh Rugby).
