ONE of the main instigators of the disruption at the Scottish Labour rally yesterday has been suspended by the SNP, the Daily Record can reveal.
Piers Doughty-Brown was one of a band of protesters who harangued party leader Jim Murphy and comedian Eddie Izzard as they tried to drum up last minute support in the general election campaign.
Nicola Sturgeon said yesterday that the shameful scenes were “nothing to do with the SNP”.
But it emerged today that activist Doughty-Brown, one of the organisers of the ambush, is a paid-up SNP member.
And, embarrassingly for Sturgeon, pictures emerged of her and Doughty-Brown stood together at a Nationalist event.
Asked by the Daily Record today about Doughty-Brown being an SNP member, an SNP spokesman said: “Mr Doughty-Brown has been placed under administrative suspension from the SNP.”
Later it emerged that a second party member, James Scott, has also been placed under &quot;administrative suspension&quot;.
 

It is not the first time Doughty-Brown has used controversial tactics against Labour in the election campaign.
He has repeatedly followed Glasgow East candidate Margaret Curran out canvassing in her constituency, videoing her as she talks to voters.
He described himself as “hunting” the politician.

Shadow Scottish Secretary Margaret Curran said: “Yesterday Nicola Sturgeon said the appalling scenes on the streets of Glasgow were nothing to do with the SNP, yet today she has suspended the SNP member who led the disruption.
“What happened yesterday was the ugly face of nationalism, but we will never let it stop us making a positive case for Scotland’s future - and it will never stop me standing up for the people of the East End of Glasgow.
“As someone who has been followed on the streets of Glasgow by Mr Doughty-Brown and who has raised concerns about his behaviour for months, I am happy to assist Nicola Sturgeon with her investigation.”
 

Izzard yesterday condemned the chanting mob.
He said: “It’s OK having different opinions, but everyone should be able to put their opinion forward. This aggressive, this violent emotion, why violence? Don’t have violence, we should just put our point of view forward and then everyone makes their choice on Thursday.”
Scuffles broke out as the protesters disrupted the event, chanting “Red Tories out” at Scottish Labour leader Jim Murphy who had a megaphone pointed at his face.
SNP leader Nicola Sturgeon condemned the actions of the group, who yelled abuse at Labour supporters and left bystanders appalled.
SNP leader Nicola Sturgeon condemned the scenes but said they had “nothing to do with the SNP”.
She added: “We should all behave in a way in this general election that does credit to Scotland.”
Try today's quick quiz:

