A MILLIONAIRE Scots peer used his inherited seat in the House of Lords to complain about how difficult it was to claim subsidies for his family’s TWO estates.
The Earl of Erroll, Merlin Hay, is just one of a band of aristocrats in the arcane second chamber to be exposed by a Daily Record investigation today.
Incredibly, there are still 92 lords making laws that govern the UK with no claim to power other than historic family connections to the landed classes.
And they include a number of Scots “nobles” who use the system’s &pound;300-a-day plus expenses allowance while wielding their undemocratic power to push for changes to government policy that serve their own interests.
Hay, 67, who holds the title of hereditary Lord High Constable of Scotland, owns a “house and cliffs” in Aberdeenshire and 667 hectares of arable land in Bedfordshire.
During the 2013-14 Lords session, he claimed &pound;42,850 in expenses despite speaking just 12 times.
In a debate on March 25 this year, on the computer systems used by farmers to apply for government money, he whinged: “My Lords, I declare a serious interest as I do all the paperwork online for my wife, who farms and is trustee of a second place, so I will be trying to file for two estates.
“We were a quarter of the way through when the computer system went down with no notice.
“Maybe someone who actually understands how the system works at the sharp end could advise on how this can be sorted out.”
 

In another intervention on October 16 last year, he appeared to lobby the Government to give money to an IT company he is involved with.
During a debate on self-driving cars, he said: “I must declare an interest. I chair the HyperCat consortium, which consists of many companies.
“Innovate UK is doing a very good job to spread this around the various areas with the money the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills allocated to it. However, it is not quite sufficient in certain cases.
“There is quite a fight going on over the coming Autumn Statement; HyperCat has asked for quite a significant amount of funding for this.
“Rumour has it that it could well get blocked when it gets to the Treasury and other places.”
“I must declare an interest” is a phrase that comes up time and time again when hereditary members speak.
Multi-millionaire Lord Adrian Palmer, 63, who owns an estate near Edinburgh, claimed &pound;48,864 expenses in 2013-14, speaking on nine days and making six written contributions – often on areas close to his heart.
 
Please enter your postcode above for details on your constituency

During a debate on new laws to loosen gambling rules, viewed as benefiting the horse racing industry, he said: “I rise briefly to add my support to this amendment.
“I must declare an interest in having a son who trains horses and I have an interest in his yard at Newmarket. I congratulate the Government on taking this on board so very seriously.”
The baron, who inherited his title, owns shares in British American Tobacco and has declared gifts, benefits and hospitality from the Tobacco Manufacturers’ Association through his membership of the Lords and Commons Cigar Club.
No surprise then that four of his six written submissions in 2013-14 were about tobacco packaging and tax on tobacco and alcohol.
The Earl of Glasgow, Patrick Boyle, 75, owner of the sprawling Kelburn Estate in North Ayrshire, claimed &pound;42,532 in attendance and travel expenses in 2013-14, despite speaking just eight times and making no written submissions.
In 2012-13, the Lib Dem spoke in the Lords just twice – both times on topics of shocking self-interest.
In December 2012, he made an impassioned speech against anti-discrimination laws after one of his employees took him to a tribunal. He said: “I do not think that we are ever going to be able to cut down drastically the number of people going to a tribunal unless we address this issue of discrimination.”

In his other spoken contribution that year he argued for more public money to be given to owners of historic buildings.
He said: “I must declare an interest in that I own a Grade 1 listed castle and country park in Scotland that attracts 60,000 visitors a year.
“There are no votes in making concessions to people living in grand houses, rather the opposite, we are targeted as people to be milked.
“Contrary to popular belief, the majority of those living in grand houses are not particularly rich – because they are living in grand houses. Historic Houses Association members collectively spend &pound;139million a year to maintain their historic buildings and grounds, and these sums are barely enough to contain the dry rot and stop the wet coming in.”
His comments went down well with Lord Palmer, who roared: “Hear, hear!”
The Marquess of Lothian, Michael Kerr, 69, who raked in &pound;24,750 in expenses, spoke only five times in 2013-14 – and proved himself miles off public opinion by questioning whether gay couples should be allowed to marry.
In June 2013, the Tory said: “I have problems with the equal use of the word ‘marriage’.”
 

The Earl of Lindsay, James Lindesay-Bethune, 60, who has an estate in Fife and dozens of commercial interests, claimed &pound;26,415 in expenses for 2013-14, despite failing to speak once or make any written submissions.
Meanwhile, the Earl of Caithness, Malcolm Sinclair, 66, raked in &pound;49,109 in 2013-14, speaking 22 times and making one written submission.
In April 2013, the Tory, who inherited his seat in the Lords from his dad, spoke out in praise of “caring and sensitive” Margaret Thatcher.
He said: “I remember sitting in the Lords’ gallery in 1979 at the vote of no confidence, watching some left-wing Labour MPs singing The Red Flag, and thinking, ‘Who is going to be able to change this?’
“Mrs Thatcher stopped the rot.”
Try our quick news quiz below:

