MORE than 7000 delegates are meeting in Glasgow this week to look at how Scotland could lead the way on biotechnology.
Bio fuels, bio energy and using fermentation to produce fuels or raw materials for plastics and other ideas are all up for grabs.
But Scotland lacks the facilities currently, according to the Industrial Biotechnology Innovation Centre (IBioIC), based at the newest and angular structure at Strathclyde University.
A recent Scottish Enterprise report argued that the country wasn’t able to benefit from types of bioenergy because of a lack of biorefining sites.
The IBioIC in Glasgow is one of eight innovation centres in Scotland set up in the past 18 months, funded by the Scottish Funding Council to propel areas the Scottish Government things need a push.
Glasgow focuses on life sciences, chemical, marine and agricultural sectors, turning around the traditional flow from universities. Normally experts would come up with ideas and then see if they were of use to industry. Now industry is intended to approach universities with problems that experts can fix.
But Paul Hudman, business development manager at IBioIC, explained that there is a “Valley of Death” between those two spheres.
Big industry doesn’t have the time or resources to risk experimenting on possible solutions, and universities don’t have the physical space or resources to trial solutions for potential economic development.
If Glasgow could fill that gap, it could be even more beneficial than the persistent talk of a film studio for Scotland, said Mr Hudman.

He said: “Industry is revenue driven; academia is driven by publications.
“Nobody at universities wants to take further than proof of concept, and industry doesn’t want to test economic capabilities. We’re trying to work with universities with an idea or industry with a problem.
“You have an idea and then you hit this Valley of Death. There’s not really the room for academics to take an idea and scale it up and commercialise it.
“There is a UK-wide problem of a lack of facilities to make that jump. There are a lot of industrial facilities and a lot of labs, but there is a gap in the middle.
“We have got the expertise in the country today. There are a lot of opportunities.”
Glasgow is looking in particular at a refinery, but not one for traditional oil. Just as whiskey comes from fermentation, the remnants can, in turn, be fermented to produce fuel or ultimately products derived from fossil fuels, such as plastics. More than 10 per cent of fossil fuels go into non-fuel uses, so it’s considered a huge potential market for Glasgow and Scotland.
There’s currently nowhere in Scotland to do the fermentation work, and one firm has had to turn to Ghent in Belgium. Change the yeast and you can get a different outcome from alcohol.
Mr Hudman said: “It’s essentially a tub of something spinning it around and getting a product out of it. It’s the same as producing beer.
“The technology is there to produce some really useful and sustainable fuels.”
Scotland doesn’t have vast prairies to produce ethanol as in the US, but has waste from whiskey production and other sectors, said Mr Hudman.
He added: “Policy has always been in favour of biofuels and has skewed where technology is and where the facilities are. We don’t have the facilities in Scotland yet.
“If we want to be more reliant on sustainable fuels, the argument is let’s produce something that produces from waste that’s cheaper - using natural resources in the best way we can.
“We can produce jobs and revenue and the training side will produce highly skilled individuals who are probably earning above the national average when they get jobs.”
The All-Energy 2015 Conference is being held on May 6 and 7 at the SECC.
