Labour candidate Jim Sheridan has been drumming up support for his re-election bid the old-fashioned way...by knocking on doors.
The former trade union official estimates he and his campaign team have knocked on thousands of doors across the Paisley and Renfrewshire North constituency in recent weeks.
However, if the pre-election polls are to be believed, Jim could soon be out of a job, with SNP newcomer Gavin Newlands being tipped to take the seat.
The 62-year-old Labour veteran admits he’s got a fight on his hands...but insists it’s a battle he can win.
Jim told the Paisley Daily Express: “There is no doubt the polls have been pretty poor. They suggest this will be a challenging election for me. However, I’ve knocked on thousands of doors in the last couple of months and what the polls are saying is not what I’m hearing from people.
“When you talk to people about real issues, they see this election as a choice between a Tory or a Labour government.
“The vast majority of people are saying quite clearly they want a Labour government and they want rid of the Tories. The only way we’ll get rid of the Tories is to vote Labour – that’s the most important thing.”
Jim has been an MP for 14 years and is hoping for another five after the votes are counted this time around.
Before standing for a Westminster seat for the first time in 2001, he worked in the shipyards and then for Thales (formerly Barr and Stroud) in Glasgow.
He was a convenor for the TGWU trade union from 1984 to 2000 and spent two years as a councillor for the Erskine Central ward before being elected to the old Renfrewshire West parliamentary constituency in 2001.
Four years later, he won the newly-formed Paisley and Renfrewshire South seat with 45 per cent of the vote and increased that to 54 per cent at the last General Election in 2010.
He is proud of his achievements as an MP over the last 14 years, both locally and nationally.
“I’m most proud of being given the opportunity to represent people and sort out problems in their life,” said Jim. “It gives you a good boost doing these things for people.
“The perfect example is the Tesco development in Linwood. I worked closely with the community development trust, not only working for the new Tesco store but for a new Tweedie Hall as well.
“Four years ago, Linwood was handed the Carbuncle Award but look at it now. It has improved 100 per cent.
“At a national level, as chair of the Occupational Health and Safety Group, we managed to secure compensation for victims of asbestos and asbestos-related illnesses from insurance companies last year.
“I also introduced the Gangmasters Private Members Bill, which aimed to help migrant workers who were being brought over to the UK to work, mainly in agriculture, by gangsters.”
Jim’s trade union roots underpin his politics and he insists his personal experience of being unemployed means he will always work hard to bring investment to Renfrewshire.
“They say that events can change you and shape you,” he added. “I was unemployed for three years because I was blacklisted as a result of my trade union commitments.
“I was fired in 1981 and only got a job in 1984 with Barr &amp; Stroud. I had a young family and I was demoralised. I know what it’s like to be desperate for work.
“The benefits system is a safety net, not a way of life. I can say that from experience.
“I want to create an environment where people can invest in Renfrewshire and I work closely with Renfrewshire Chamber of Commerce to achieve that.”
The Express accompanied Jim as he knocked on doors in Asbury Court, Linwood.
Of the three people who were at home at the time, all said they were voting for Jim, with one, Dorothy Dalziel, revealing she’d already submitted her postal vote.
Dorothy told the Express: “I’ve always voted Labour, I wasn’t tempted by the SNP.
“I’ve never met Jim before but I’d like to wish him all the best.”
Jim, who lives in Erskine with his wife Jean, prides himself on being a family man.
He has two grown-up children, as well as two grandkids, but is eager to return to Westminster for another five years.
Jim explained: “I really enjoy doing the job. I enjoy working with people and delivering for them.
“Over the last 14 years, I must have acted on behalf of thousands of people and I have always done my best for them, whether it’s getting passports at the last minute, sorting out benefits or helping with immigration problems.
“There are a whole range of issues you get to deal with as an MP. On the doors or on the telephone, people do recognise me as a hard worker and I’m flattered by that.”
