A holiday flight was forced to make an emergency landing after a drunken fracas broke out between passengers.
The Thomas Cook flight from Glasgow to Dalaman, Turkey, was diverted to Gatwick Airport shortly after 11am.
It is understood that &quot;rowdy&quot; passengers caused trouble, forcing the aircraft crew to call the police over the incident.
Officers boarded the flight in Gatwick and arrested a 34-year-old man, who was held in custody on suspicion of being drunk on an aircraft.
A quick-thinking passenger recorded the fight while the plane was grounded on a runway at Gatwick and sent it to his friend to post on social media.
His friend, who asked to remain anonymous, said: &quot;My mate was going away for two weeks on holiday and he sent me a text message saying 'Guess what's happened on my flight?'
 

&quot;From what he told me, the plane took off from Glasgow and a couple were quite drunk and very rowdy.
&quot;He said they were 'drunk steaming'. They must've been drinking before they got on the flight.
&quot;They were so rowdy the plane had to be redirected to Gatwick and the police were called to deal with it.
&quot;It was a man and a woman, and they were just being loud at first, but when the plane landed there were several police officers who boarded the plane.
&quot;They had to carry the man off the plane, I think five of them, and there were fists and punches thrown about.
&quot;I don't think there were any injuries though. The video shows the guy being carried off by the police.&quot;
Police were seen waiting on the runway and boarded the flight in order to subdue a man who was arrested and taken into police custody.
He is currently being held on suspicion of being drunk and disorderly on an aircraft.
A Sussex police spokeswoman said: &quot;At 11.45am on Wednesday police went to a Thomas Cook flight which had just been diverted into Gatwick Airport on a flight from Glasgow to Turkey, and arrested a 34-year-old man who was a passenger, on suspicion of being drunk on an aircraft.
&quot;There are no reports of injuries or damage. The man is currently in custody for interview and further enquiries.
&quot;Two women with the man were not arrested.&quot;
A spokesman for Gatwick Airport said: &quot;We can confirm a flight from Glasgow to Dalaman was diverted and landed at Gatwick at 11.15am.
&quot;The incident is being dealt with by police and the flight will continue to its final destination.&quot;
A spokesperson for Thomas Cook Airlines said: &quot;We have a zero tolerance policy towards any behaviour on-board affecting the safety and welfare of our crew and customers.
&quot;We'd like to thank those on board for the patience during the delay to their flight to Turkey.&quot;
 Try your hand at our news quiz 

