I’VE been to Amsterdam a few times before, but always as a teenager - and always tagging along with my dad while he was teaching over there. I have never been to Amsterdam as an adult. Until last week.
 I hadn’t realized how diverse the city was. I knew about their incredibly easy-going laws where mild cannabis use and the ladies-of-the-night were concerned. But what I hadn’t realised is that the city really does cater for everyone, not just the endless rowdy hen parties and stag do’s that litter the city with loud shrieks and fluffy pink feather boas. 
The museums are stunning. The canals are picturesque and serene. The restaurants are incredible and the city’s toyshops put Selfridges to shame with their life-sized Lego figures and wooden dolls.
Bikes are given priority over any other vehicle in the country, including the excellent tram system. There are maps everywhere and everyone speaks English as if they boarded for most of their perfect childhood at Cheltenham’s Finishing School for Young Ladies.
Dutch toilets are immaculate. Who knew those sterilization sprays in cubicles aimed at keeping your publicly-used pan clean could actually be filled regularly? There are incredible beer and wine bars, wooden clogs and tulips everywhere - and for the most part, everyone is very happy.
Yes, Amsterdam impressed me by day. It was vibrant and happy and sunny, and I loved the rich mixture of culture and ethnic diversity.
The only let down for me was the Red Light District. Somehow I had imagined it to be much more exciting than it was.
Vicariously living through a multitude of documentaries watched as I grew up, together with stories I had heard from others, I had presumed the shows, the women and the nightlife were shocking and incredibly entertaining. They were not.
My two friends and myself had booked one of the most expensive shows in town - you even received a free questionably shaped lolly-pop at the door.
We fell asleep halfway through and, after finishing our diet cokes and giving our last disappointing yawn, headed towards our hotel beds - deeply let down by the, quite frankly, bored looking actors we’d seen on stage that night.
The truth of the matter is if you take away the forbidden fruit aspect of sex, drugs and rock and roll, they become a kiwi fruit and a Taylor Swift single.
It’s no longer something naughty or bad. And believe it or not, that’s a very good thing. In Holland the general consensus is to talk openly about everything. To be so accustomed to discussing sex that the idea of not protecting oneself is considered ludicrous. Most importantly, they believe that to respect one another is paramount to creating a good society.
We have an election coming up with politicians we seem to have lost a lot of faith in. Perhaps going back to the drawing board is something we should all do - go back to the key issues with our own culture and figure out how to confront them and change them for the better. It may not turn out exactly how Holland did it, but I think we could get very close.
