TOMORROW people across Scotland have a key opportunity to vote for a different kind of politics.
We have a chance to rid the UK of destructive and immoral austerity economics – which has led to savage cuts to vital public services. The day centres which are being closed and the community centres which are losing their funding were not being used by the elite who caused the financial crash, or the Westminster politicians who oversaw it.
Rather, this is the most vulnerable in society being punished for the mistakes of the most privileged.
Last year there were more than a million visits across the UK to foodbanks. Hundreds of thousands of children are expected to slip into poverty as a result of austerity and the so-called &quot;welfare reforms&quot; being used to mask cuts to social security for the disabled and lone parents.
We are not only facing this threat from the Tories – it may have been them who set this agenda but Labour have happily followed. Last year Labour supported the Tory-Lib Dem Charter for Budget Responsibility which will impose a further &pound;30 billion worth of cuts across the UK.
If you think things would be different with a Labour majority government, think again. Ed Balls, the Labour Shadow Chancellor, has hammered home that cuts will continue under Labour. It’s been made clear that they are no longer a party which will make protecting the under-privileged a priority – never more obviously than when Rachel Reeves told The Guardian that Labour “are not the party of people on benefits”.
However, there is one party in Scotland which wants to break up this cosy consensus on austerity cuts: the SNP.
The SNP doesn’t want to balance the books on the backs of the poor, which is why we will not support further spending cuts. In fact, we want to increase public spending slightly each year in order to maintain and improve upon all those services we hold dear. By doing so the deficit and the debt will continue to fall but we will have money to spend on hard working families across the UK.
There’s a change happening in Scotland, and it has been brewing over the past few years. Journalists from across the UK have visited and acknowledged the different political mood here – one in which hope and optimism about the future are winning over fear and apathy.
Ask yourself: have you heard anything positive from any of the other political parties? I haven’t, all I’ve heard is more scaremongering.
The people of Scotland emerged from the referendum invigorated and determined to affect change in whatever way we can. Regardless of whether we voted yes or no, we now need Scotland to unite and send a strong team of SNP MPs to London to speak for Scotland.
For the first time since I can remember, Scotland could have a voice at Westminster.
This possibility – Scotland exercising its democratic right and making its voice heard – has got the other parties in quite a tizzy.
Which is somewhat ironic. During the referendum campaign David Cameron pleaded with the people of Scotland: “Stay and lead the UK!”
That’s exactly what the SNP is trying to do in our manifesto – which puts forward a progressive agenda for the whole of the UK, not just Scotland.
Now we’re being told that we’re trying to hijack the election. It’s pure hypocrisy.
The people of Scotland have a choice tomorrow. They can choose the status quo – more of the same under a Tory or Labour government, a future in which none of Scotland’s promised powers are delivered upon and the basic needs of the most vulnerable continue to be neglected.
Or they can choose to lead real change – to lock the Tories out, support a progressive agenda and give Scotland a voice by voting SNP.
