FORMER Scotland lock Nathan Hines has returned to the international fold to join Vern Cotter's coaching staff.
The 38-year-old Sale player is ending his playing career to begin work as a &quot;resource coach&quot; - using his lineout expertise to help the national team while also helping develop the younger forwards in the squad.
Hines, who won 77 caps, is rejoining the Scotland set-up as scrum coach Massimo Cuttitta departs.
The former British and Irish Lion will also work with former club Edinburgh and Glasgow and with Scotland's rising rugby players in the youth ranks.
Hines has worked with Cotter before - the New Zealander signed him in 2011 when he was in charge at French side Clermont Auvergne.
&quot;This is a fantastic opportunity to help a team I played with for 11 years, and one I obviously want to do well; a team that has given me so much and helped me develop as a player,&quot; he said.
&quot;I think that Scotland have got some exceptional young players and I'm relishing the opportunity to help make them better than they already are. They've got huge potential and I want to help them in their development.
 

&quot;Part of helping the team mature is sharing my experience and showing them how not to make the same mistakes I did, on my travels, and in my 11 years playing for Scotland.
&quot;The chance to work with Vern again is another great benefit of this role. He knows how I work and I know how he works, which might have been part of the decision why he asked me to come on board. We got on really well at Clermont and I'm looking forward to working with him again.&quot;
Head coach Cotter added: &quot;Nathan has a huge amount of experience, not only in rugby union, but also in rugby league.
&quot;His speciality is the lineout but we have seen, both for Scotland and other teams, that he has a very broad skill set.
&quot;He will be an excellent resource for many facets of our game, particularly lineouts and as a role model for our younger players.
&quot;He has a lot of passion for Scotland and I know he will get a lot of enjoyment from being part of the development of our players - many of whom are just starting their senior careers - and encouraging them to fill the jersey in the best way possible.&quot;
The Scottish Rugby Union said Cuttitta had left for personal reasons after almost six years in his full-time role helping the national team and both of the country's professional clubs. The former Italy prop previously worked as a consultant to the SRU for four years.

 
