WHEN Susan Jack took part in her first 10k it was at short notice, a bit of a laugh and a fun sporting day out.
This month, she will take to the street for her second race and it will be one of the most emotional and challenging moments of her life.
A year after she first took on the Great Women’s 10k, she found a lump and within days was diagnosed with breast cancer.
After three years fighting back to full health, she will mark her recovery with a return to running – and knows it will be an emotional and tear-filled occasion for her and her daughters.
Susan, 47, works for domestic abuse charity Glasgow Women’s Aid, and took part in her first 10k to raise money for the good cause.
With little training or preparation, she completed the run and was delighted with her performance.
She couldn’t believe that just a year later, she was facing a deadly illness.
Susan said: “I’ve worked for Glasgow Women’s Aid for 13 years, and in 2010 a team were taking part and I thought I’d join them.
“I hadn’t done much training and planned to walk most of it but once you’re in that crowd of women you get right into it – I had a fabulous time and did a decent time.
“But a year later, I found a lump, and that was when the whole thing started to fall apart.”
She added: “I got a quick appointment and was diagnosed that day, so to find out suddenly you have breast cancer was unbelievable.
“I remember lying there, with tears rolling down my face, thinking about my children. I’m a single parent and they were young, and I was just thinking, ‘What will happen to them if I go?’ It was just horrible.”
The illness had been caught early enough that surgeons were able to remove all of the cancer. Susan had a mastectomy of the affected breast, and her lymph nodes removed also.
The operation was successful, meaning she didn’t require chemo or radiotherapy.
But she still faced a long road to recovery, and had to look after her daughters Ellie and Charlotte, now 15 and 12. “I was lucky,” said Susan. “The lymph nodes were clear and after that I had hormone therapy and I was very grateful I didn’t need chemo.
“But there were physical and psychological side effects that took longer to recover from.
“It was hard. You want to get back to normality. I went back to work six weeks later which in hindsight was bonkers, and I was soon exhausted.”
The fearless mum battled back though, and a few months ago she was bitten by the 10k bug once more.
The 23rd annual Women’s 10k on May 17, sponsored by Morrisons, will finish on Mosspark Boulevard.
Susan, from Glasgow, said: “I have been still going along to the Women’s 10K events and cheering on our supporters and volunteers.
“I feel as if I’m now joining in the world again by taking part. My lasting memory of the last one was how good it felt, and the great camaraderie.
“It will be an emotional day for me.”
She is once again raising money for Glasgow Women’s Aid, where she was well supported during her illness.
Susan said: “It’s a great cause and I really feel like giving something back and supporting the charity.
“It’s important to raise awareness of the issues, and domestic abuse is such an awful issue in society which affects so many women and children.”
 Try your hand at our news quiz 

