SCOTTISH Labour face a devastating rout in their heartlands today.
Tactical voting and local popularity will throw a lifeline to a handful of Jim Murphy’s general election candidates.
But an exclusive Daily Record poll shows Nicola Sturgeon’s SNP on course for a historic victory. It suggests Labour will be left with just SIX MPs in Scotland – the same number as the SNP got in 2010.

The Nationalists look set to take an astonishing 52 seats as the nation’s political map is redrawn. A solitary Lib Dem MP, down from 11 last time, will complete the picture in Scotland.
However, the sophisticated analysis by Survation did reveal some good news for unionist candidates.
Researchers showed voters an accurate replica of the ballot papers they will mark today.
And when they did, they found that SNP support dropped as popular local candidates and tactical voting was factored in to people’s thinking.
The findings suggest sitting MPs who have worked hard for their local area stand the best chance of surviving the SNP tsunami.
 

The innovative super-poll of 1660 Scots also found evidence of widespread unionist tactical voting to try to keep the SNP out.
But it appears that won’t save Labour in what were their traditional strongholds.
Pro-independence voters in Yes-supporting areas like Glasgow, West Dunbartonshire and North Lanarkshire are switching to the nationalists en masse.
Ironically, Labour could hold on to more marginal seats that include pockets of No voting Tory supporters who are willing to vote tactically for Labour.
It is one glimmer of hope for Ed Miliband as he desperately looks north for help in his battle to dislodge David Cameron from Downing Street.
The headline figures before the ballot paper was shown painted a familiar picture of SNP dominance.
 
Please enter your postcode above for details on your constituency

Nicola Sturgeon’s party is on 48.9 per cent, Labour 24.8 per cent, the Tories 15.5 per cent and the Lib Dems 5.9 per cent.
If the uniform swing since 2010 was repeated across the country the SNP would win 55 seats, Labour three, the Lib Dems one and the Tories would be completely wiped out.
But when voters were shown the ballot papers the SNP vote fell to 45.9 per cent, whilst Labour rose to 25.8 per cent and the Lib Dems to 7.1 per cent. The Tories dropped to 15 per cent.
This result would see Labour hold an extra three seats, taking their tally to six and the SNP to 52.

But Survation chief executive Damian Lyons Lowe said the changes could actually be more dramatic as the headline figures do not take account for local variations.
“While the SNP continue to dominate headline Scottish voting intention in this latest poll, our new “virtual ballot paper” question reveals some very interesting detail,” he said.
“When people are forced to choose between the actual candidates standing in their constituency and think as they will on polling day, the SNP vote share falls.
“Undecided and tactical voters break towards the SNP’s principal opponents - the Lib Dems in the Highlands &amp; Islands, the Conservatives in South Scotland and Labour in the central belt.

“This suggests that the SNP’s unprecedented surge across Scotland nationally might not translate into the complete “wipeout” of their opponents as some have been forecasting.
“Simulating today’s polling station experience with real ballot papers shows tactical voters from pro-union parties are likely to assist popular Labour, Lib Dem or Conservative incumbents.”
The regional break-down of the poll shows the Lib Dems look set to benefit most from tactical voting.
In their Highlands and Islands heartlands almost half of the Conservative supporters in the region look set to lend them their vote to lock out the SNP.
The Lib Dem vote share rockets from 22.7 per cent to 32.5 per cent when voters are shown the ballot paper.
Scottish Lib Dem leader Willie Rennie said: “It’s now game on for the Lib Dems. We are on the verge of doing something extraordinary by winning all five of our Highlands and Islands seats against the odds.
“In our eleven Liberal Democrat held seats it is a straight choice between our local champions and the SNP who are cooking up a plan for a second referendum.”

Meanwhile, Sturgeon last night appealed to voters across the country to back her party.
She said: “My message to people across Scotland – whether they voted Yes or No in the referendum, whether they always vote SNP or have never done so before, whether they’re urban or rural; north, south, east or west – is that if they put their trust in the SNP today, we will not let them down.
“This election offers an opportunity to make Scotland stronger and stand up for progressive politics which we simply can’t afford to pass up – and people should grab it with both hands as they enter the polling stations today.”
Labour leader Ed Miliband said: “David Cameron is clear. If he has just one more MP than Labour he’ll try and stay in power. Any seat the SNP win from Labour in Scotland makes that more likely, and we’ll suffer five more years of cuts, food-banks and falling living standards.
“The one vote David Cameron doesn’t want you to cast is a vote for Labour. The only way to get a Labour government on Friday is to vote Labour on Thursday.
“A Labour Government is within touching distance. I’m asking for your vote to kick the Tories out, and to end Tory austerity. Vote for Labour - the party of Scotland, of change and of social justice.”
 

It’s the most important election in living memory, and the most unpredictable.
And in print, online and on mobile, you won’t miss a second with the Daily Record’s unrivalled coverage.
We’ll have every result from every seat on Scotland’s biggest news website DailyRecord.co.uk, including our unbeatable and up-to-the minute live results map.
Scotland’s political journalist of the year - David Clegg, our political editor - will anchor our rolling coverage through the night tonight from our Glasgow HQ.
Meanwhile Westminster editor Torcuil Crichton will be in London to bring you the inside track as the parties jockey for position in what’s set to be another hung parliament.
Record reporters will be at all the the key counts in the key constituencies across Scotland - Alex Salmond in Gordon, Douglas Alexander in Paisley and Jim Murphy in East Renfrewshire to name three.
And all the build up to the big declarations - who is on the up, who is on the down - will be on our election live blog with Mark Aitken, political editor of our sister paper the Sunday Mail, and social media guru Ross McCafferty.
Follow us on Twitter and Facebook. Get every twist and turn on the live blog. Read unparalleled analysis in the paper.
We’re Scotland’s newspaper of the year ... and we’re No1 for the general election.

