STILL Game star Gavin Mitchell took a break from pulling pints yesterday to drum up support for the SNP.
 Gavin, Boaby the Barman in the BBC comedy , took to the sunny streets of Govan, Glasgow, just hours before polls opened. 
 In the seat – currently held by Labour’s Anas Sarwar – scores and scores of people walked past giving huge smiles and thumbs-ups to the canvassers. 
Many of the punters sported SNP badges and vowed they would be voting for the Nationalists today.
 Gavin , 50, was joined by fellow Scots actor Iain Robertson, SNP minister Humza Yousaf and SNP candidate Chris Stephens. Stephens hopes to win Glasgow South-West from Labour’s Ian Davidson. 
 Gavin and Iain come from Labour-supporting families but recently converted to the SNP. Gavin said: “I’ve voted Labour all my life and so have my family. 
 “I am from Springburn, one of Glasgow’s strongest Labour areas, but I feel disappointed and disenfranchised with the Labour movement. 
“They have not been engaging with people and are unrecognisable from the party I grew up with. It is difficult to tell them apart from the Tories.
 

“Now we have a chance to change things and have our voice heard in Westminster.”
The group went knocking doors as well as stopping people on Govan Road, handing out posters, badges and leaflets.
Bafta winner Iain – who starred in Grange Hill, Rab C Nesbitt and cult Glasgow gang film Small Faces – supported Labour until the day after the referendum.
Iain, 33, said: “I grew up in Govan and my granny was a shop steward in the yards. I have voted Labour all my life but on September 19 everything changed.
“I realised Labour had practically become the Tories when they joined together for the No campaign. I am a socialist but I now have nothing in common with Labour. They have changed so much and they have abandoned the people of Scotland.
“The support on the streets for the SNP has been phenomenal and I believe they will win something like 48 or 49 seats.”
Ashley Gowrie, 20, of Springboig, was delighted to meet Gavin and Iain. The actors took selfies with her son George, two, as he clutched an SNP balloon.
The proud mum said: “It is amazing to see the guys here – I love the shows they are in, especially Still Game.
“This will be the first time I am voting but it will be for the SNP.
 

“Loads of people have suffered as a result of the Tory Government, and Labour have done nothing at all to help.”
George’s gran Ethel Gowrie is 42 today. She pledged to switch from voting Labour to SNP. She said: “I hope the SNP give me a perfect birthday present and win all the seats in Scotland.
“Labour don’t seem to care what happens to ordinary people, which I’m sure they will regret when the polls close.”
Self-employed Janet Devine, 43, was in the same boat. Janet, of Cardonald, said: “I am definitely voting SNP tomorrow despite voting Labour all my life.
“Labour have left working class people behind and have forgotten their roots.
“It is as if they couldn’t care less what happens to the people of Scotland.”
Candidate Stephens said: “People feel letdown by Labour, who have been in long-term decline since the start of the Iraq War.
“Our feet are firmly on the ground but I believe we can win this seat and many others, although we will be canvassing right up until the polls close at 10pm to scoop up as many votes as we can.”
 
Please enter your postcode above for details on your constituency

 Try our quick news quiz below: 

