HOW do you feel after giving money to charity?
 Happy that you’ve potentially madea difference? Secretly resentful that you’ve been guilted into it by some wee oink with a clipboard? Suspicious that Binky Felstead might be getting a cut after the Made in Chelsea star took &pound;3000 from Barnardo’s for a picture ? 
Are you worried that you’re throwing donation after donation into a black hole? Or sceptical that there’s a chance it’s being gambled away in the stock market or invested in arms?
 I feel all of these things when I give to charity . Whether it be a monthly direct debit to a well-known organisation or a quid to a homeless guy in the street, I always have this niggling thought in the back of my mind that my contribution won’t solve the problem – or worse, there’s a chance that I’m inadvertently exacerbating things. 
 

Aside from the minefield of making a donation, there is also the compassion burnout of the charity workers themselves to consider.
This is a real problem that well-intentioned volunteers face. They struggle in times of dwindling resources and often, in their attempt to help others, come out the other end ill.
Despite all of this, there’s no question that charity should always have a place in our society but it’s not enough to solve all of our problems.
This is where social enterprise comes in. For those who don’t know what social enterprise is, I’ll first explain what it is not.
Social enterprises are not to be confused with socially responsible companies. The latter are a different beast that never seem to pull off their good intentions because of their conflicting interests between shareholder dividends and ethical pledges.
 

Social enterprises, on the other hand, invest 100 per cent of their profits back into their business or chosen charities. They also often provide meaningful, non-exploitative employment to vulnerable people that would otherwise find it difficult to get a foot in the door.
For example, Spruce carpets reclaim and refurbish quality used carpets as well as recycling surplus stock that would usually be dumped in a landfill.
 They employ and train young people in Glasgow who would otherwise find it hard to get a job. The flooring is then sold at an affordable cost to low-income families. 
 Another example is Social Bite – a sandwich shop who employ formerly homeless people then split their profits between Shelter, the STV Appeal, an eye-care hospital in Bangladesh and a microloan foundation in Malawi and Zambia. 
 

What’s more exciting is that Scotland is leading the way internationally in terms of social enterprise support and development.
Other countries often look to the Scottish model for inspiration.
In a country where people are increasingly frustrated, angry and disheartened by the inequality they witness on their doorstep and further afield, social enterprise seems a good way to bridge the gap between business and charity.
It offers some practical solutions to the social and environmental troubles we face today.
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

