Clydesdale Bank is to be de-merged from its Australian parent group and listed on the stock exchange.
National Australia Bank (NAB), which owns the Clydesdale and Yorkshire banks in the UK, will retain between 70 and 80 per cent of the shares in the UK banking division with the remainder to be offered to institutional investors.
The shares will be listed on the London stock exchange and will also be traded on the Australian stock market.
NAB, which acquired Clydesdale Bank in 1987 and Yorkshire Bank in 1990, said it plans to de-merge its UK banking division by the end of the year.
The de-merger announcement was made by NAB at its Melbourne headquarters on Wednesday in a first-half trading update along with plans to raise AUS$ 5.5 billion (&pound;2.9 billion) by way of a rights issue.
The UK regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (FSA) has told NAB it must make a &pound;1.7 billion provision to cover mis-selling and misconduct costs relating to the UK banking division.
Clydesdale Bank was fined &pound;20.6 million by the FSA last month for “serious failings” in its handling of payment protection insurance claims, which included “providing false information to the Financial Ombudsman Service”.
Clydesdale Bank's acting chief executive, Debbie Crosbie said in a statement in response the the FSA fine, the total provision for PPI was increased to &pound;806 million last year, but added the full cost remains uncertain.
NAB stated last October its exit plan from the UK market was an “absolute priority” after the Australian parent reported a 1.1 per cent fall in full-year profits to AUSD $5.3 billion (&pound;2.9 billion), despite strong trading in its core business.
Weighing down its overall performance was one-off charges totalling AUS$1.5 billion (&pound;823 million), the bulk of which were booked by the UK business which it described in 2013 as a “problem asset”.
In the first-half trading update, NAB said Clydesdale Bank has delivered a 33 per cent increase in earnings to &pound;118million, largely on new mortgage lending, which was up 15 per cent, lifting gross lending five per cent to &pound;28 billion.
NAB said Clydesdale added 60,000 internet banking customers to 659,000, boosted by an &pound;11 million one-off investment to offer customers current account and savings deals. Crosbie said the demerger, “marks the beginning of an exciting new opportunity for Clydesdale and Yorkshire Banks.
Adding: “Our performance is improving and we're providing real customer choice in the UK, which is driving encouraging growth across our target retail and SME markets.”
In 2012 NAB transferred &pound;5.6 billion of Clydesdale Bank's commercial property loans onto its books in a bid to strengthen the finances of its UK banking division.
In 2013 NAB ruled out what it described as a “desperate fire sale” of the UK division, and said it would hold off in the belief it would achieve better value on the sale in a stronger market.
Last year Clydesdale Bank announced plans to close 28 “unsustainable” branches as part of a wider plan to reshape the group's UK retail banking operations, which would deliver savings in the region of &pound;5 million a year.
Branches earmarked for closure in Scotland included four in Aberdeen and the north-east along with outlets in Central Scotland, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Fife and Perthshire.
NAB's latest trading update puts the Clydesdale and Yorkshire branch portfolio at 294 as of March, down 28 on the prior year, and a further 19 branches have also now been earmarked for closure.
