A GRAN who has fought cancer four times is to take to the catwalk in a charity fashion show.
 Ann Meharry was chosen to be a model at the Breast Cancer Care Scotland event after being nominated by her friend  Margot Pearson. 
And when the 53-year-old struts her stuff at the fashion show, it will be testament to her courage and determination not to let cancer get the better of her.
Ann’s cancer nightmare began when she was diagnosed with Hodgkin’s disease – cancer of the lymphatic system – at the age of 18.
She beat that, but in 2004, she was diagnosed with breast cancer.
Six years later, Ann was told the disease was back and she had a breast removed.
Six months after that, she went back to the doctors with pain under her arm. Doctors found cancer in her other breast and that, too, was removed.
But Ann, 53, never had any intention of letting illness beat her.
She said: “I wasn’t going to lie down to the cancer as I had my son Stephen and my husband to think about.
“It’s been a tough ride but I think I’m over the worst.
“I’ve got a strong family unit behind me. I couldn’t have come through what I have without their help and support.”
Ann will join 20 women and one man on the catwalk at this year’s Breast Cancer Care Scotland.
Some of the models have been diagnosed with breast cancer recently and are having treatment.
Others have been cancer-free for many years and some are living with secondary cancer.
The show, which is supported by our sister paper the Sunday Mail, raises vital funds for the charity. It will take place at the Radisson Blu Hotel, Glasgow, on November 4.
Ann, of Cleland, Lanarkshire, said she was overwhelmed when she found out Margot had put her forward as a model.
She added: “It means the world to me that Margot, with the help of my brother-in-law Steph, took the time to nominate me.
“It’s a wonderful opportunity and I can’t wait to take to the catwalk with these inspirational people.
“My family and friends, including my mum Elizabeth, will be there to cheer me on. It will be an emotional evening.”
 Try your hand at our news quiz 

