GREGOR TOWNSEND insists Glasgow Warriors are determined to earn some home comforts in this season’s Guinness Pro12 play-offs.
The Scotstoun side’s head coach believes Friday night’s clash with fourth placed Ospreys is the chance secure a home play-off for the second consecutive year.
Having already booked their play-off place, the Warriors boss is determined to make sure they gain the results from their final two games to ensure they take their play-off back to Glasgow.
He said: &quot;We're well aware of the importance of tomorrow night's game and what it means to everyone associated with the club.
&quot;Securing our place in the play-offs is a massive achievement, but we're now playing for home advantage and we know these next two games are crucial to achieving that outcome.
&quot;Ospreys are only four points behind and they too are playing for a home play-off, so we're expecting an extremely tough game at the Liberty Stadium.
&quot;They have played at a consistently high level throughout the season and have a good balance in their play – a strong, aggressive defence allied to an excellent attacking game.
&quot;We will need to put in one of our best performances of the season to come away with a positive result.
Stand-off Duncan Weir returns to the Glasgow Warriors starting XV for the trip to Swansea tomorrow night
The Scotland international has made two appearances off the bench since recovering from a bicep injury, which kept him out of action since December.
Weir replaces Finn Russell in the Number 10 shirt, which is the only change to the back-line which started the 31-13 win over Connacht in Galway almost a fortnight ago.
In the forwards Ryan Grant comes in for Jerry Yanuyanutawa at loose-head, Pat MacArthur replaces Fraser Brown at hooker and Jon Welsh continues at tight-head.
Tim Swinson comes in for Leone Nakarawa in the second-row and he'll partner Jonny Gray in the engine room.
In the back-row Rob Harley and Chris Fusaro continue at blind-side and open-side respectively, while Josh Strauss replaces Adam Ashe at Number 8 and captains the side.
Following the conclusion of his suspension Ryan Wilson is named amongst the replacements, along with Fraser Lyle who could make his first appearance since representing Scotland 7s in Hong Kong and Tokyo.
