GLASGOW students have voiced their outrage at college bosses for dropping their third-year degree option at the last minute by their college.
Students in the two-year HND Acting &amp; Performance programme were told the third-year to obtain and BA degree would no longer be offered.
And they said it was the latest in a series of changes throughout the past year, including moving the course on the first day of term last year from the west end to Easterhouse. Some students had already moved to the area to be near classes before being redirected across the city.
Oliver Keenan, a student finishing his second year of the HND class, said several students were affected by the degree change. But college bosses claimed nobody had been offered a place so they axed the course.
The 18-year-old from Clydebank said the college was trying to focus on engineering and pull out of arts courses.
He said: “We were told to apply at Glasgow Kelvin and then to be told it’s not going to happen is a bit of a shock. All other places on other courses have filled up.
“Our lecturers have been brilliant but management have not told lecturers of changes. They are in the dark with us. They are opposed by they can’t do anything.
“A great majority of the class have nothing to do next year. The college should have let us know at Christmas so we could find other options.”
A spokeswoman for the college said the head of faculty for creative and digital industries met with students on Wednesday to discuss other options.
She said: “Due to the extremely low level of applications for the BA Drama &amp; Performance programme, and with no recorded internal offers to current HND programme students, the college has taken the decision not to offer the BA Drama course for session 2015/16.
“There is no automatic progression from the HND Acting &amp; Performance programme as there is a competitive selection process for this degree and staff reinforce this with students throughout the two-year HND programme.
“The College has continually reviewed applications for the BA degree programme in Drama &amp; Performance and is disappointed that it has now had to take this decision, which it has done as promptly as possible.”
