SMUG David Cameron was heading back to Downing Street last night as the SNP wiped Scottish Labour off the map, according to a bombshell exit poll.
The poll put the Tories on 316 MPs – just 10 short of an absolute majority in the House of Commons.
Labour were forecast to endure a disastrous night and secure just 239 seats –19 fewer than their tally at the start of the campaign.
Those losses would be largely due to the extraordinary surge of the SNP, with Nicola Sturgeon’s party predicted to take 58 of the 59 seats north of the border.
That would leave Britain starkly divided between Tory-ruled England and a Scotland dominated by the Nationalists.
But the First Minister was taking nothing for granted.
She tweeted: “I’d treat the exit poll with HUGE caution. I’m hoping for a good night but I think 58 seats is unlikely!”
Keep up to date with the latest election news in our live blog
The Liberal Democrats were predicted to be reduced to a rump of just 10 MPs, down from 57 in 2010.
That would be a humiliation for Nick Clegg. But in news that will horrify Scots, 10 MPs would still be enough for him to form another Con-Dem coalition with 316 Tories.
Pundits also warned that, because of the margin of error built into the exit poll, an overall Tory majority could not be ruled out.
That would pave the way for a further &pound;12billion of welfare cuts targeted at the poorest, and an in/out referendum on Britain’s membership of the European Union by 2017.

Opinion polls on the eve of the general election had put the Conservatives and Labour neck and neck.
They all suggested the race was too close to call, and some even said Ed Miliband’s party were just in front.
But if it proves correct, the joint BBC/ITN/Sky exit poll would represent Labour’s worst general election result since 1987.
It didn’t take long for the Tory gloating to start. Chief whip Michael Gove told the BBC: “I think the poll could be right, yes. If it is right, it means the Tories have clearly won this election and Labour have clearly lost it.
“We have not had an incumbent Government do anything like this since 1983.”
For Labour, Shadow Chancellor Ed Balls, himself defending a marginal seat against the Tories, said: “The exit poll is completely at odds with six weeks of opinion polls. I hope it’s going to be wrong.
“Even if the exit poll is right, that means the coalition majority has gone from 72 to zero.
“David Cameron’s ability to hang on is on a knife edge and he will have to reach out to the Ulster unionists.
“If the exit poll is wrong just by 10 seats – and all the information is that there are very close fights between Labour and Conservatives in seats right across the country – then David Cameron won’t be able to get a majority and it will fall to Ed Miliband to put a Queen’s Speech before Parliament.
“I hope our result is going to be a lot better than that. It’s really in question whether David Cameron will be able to hang on.”

Asked if Miliband could continue as leader if the exit poll was right, deputy leader Harriet Harman said such polls had been wrong in the past.
She said she was waiting for real results, and added: “You will forgive me for waiting until we have the answer to that big question before we go on to any other hypotheticals.”
The Lib Dems insisted the exit poll findings were “implausible”, and former Lib Dem leader Paddy Ashdown poured scorn on them. He told the BBC’s Andrew Neil: “If this exit poll is right, I will publicly eat my hat on your programme.”
Asked if the Lib Dems would team up with the Tories again, he said: “The Liberal Democrats have an appetite for doing what they’ve done before, which is putting national interests first.”
The exit poll was run by NOP/MORI for the three broadcasters. A total of 22,000 people in 141 polling sites in 133 constituencies were interviewed.
Although it was infamously wrong in 1992, the exit poll provided accurate reflections of the final result in 1997, 2001, 2005 and 2010.
A YouGov exit poll with a smaller sample last night produced less dramatic results but also had the Conservatives ahead. It put the Tories on 284 seats, with Labour on 263, the Lib Dems 31, the SNP 48, UKIP two, Plaid Cymru three and the Greens one.
A Scottish Labour source suggested the YouGov projections were likely to be more accurate. The insider said of the broadcasters’ poll: “It is so at odds with all the opinion polls that it is hard to believe it is true.”
But at midnight, the signs looked grim for Labour at counts in traditional strongholds all over Scotland.
A Labour source in Glasgow said: “Some of the boxes are just awful.”
In Inverclyde, an SNP insider suggested candidate Ronnie Cowan was a long way in front.
The Nationalists also believed they had won Rutherglen and Hamilton West, Labour’s second-safest Scottish seat, won by Tom Greatrex in 2010 with a majority of more than 21,000.
The SNP were also “quietly confident” of unseating Shadow Foreign Secretary Douglas Alexander in Paisley and Renfrewshire South, where 20-year-old Mhairi Black is their candidate.
In Central Ayrshire, the Tories predicted that sitting Labour MP Brian Donohoe would come in THIRD.
And the SNP were confident of victory in both Stirling and Falkirk.
The news was no better for the Lib Dems, with party sources reportedly admitting Treasury Secretary Danny Alexander had lost to the SNP in Inverness, Nairn, Badenoch and Strathspey.
Former leader Charles Kennedy was also expected to lose in Ross, Cromarty and Skye.

