SHAUN Ryder has revealed his bandmate Kermit almost died in 1997 and is only now ready to take part in a Black Grape reunion tour.
The Manchester group were at the peak when Kermit, whose real name is Paul Leveridge, was rushed to hospital with hepatitis.
With a priest in attendance to deliver the last rites, Ryder and the rapper’s friends and family were told there was no hope for him.
Ryder said: “We nearly lost Kermit a few times back in the day.
“He had hepatitis and we all went to the contagious diseases unit at the hospital in Manchester to say goodbye to him because he was going to die.
“His friends, family and parents were all there with the priest because he was a goner.
“We didn’t publicise it at the time but that’s how it was. He got the last rites and was on his way out.”
Kermit survived the scare and has now teamed up with Ryder for a UK tour that kicks off in Scotland next month.
 

 
Ryder said: “A few years ago, I did a gig with Black Grape but Kermit wasn’t there. He thought he was ready for it last time but I didn’t think he was.
“However, the next time he was ready and I thought, ‘It’s down the line so let’s give Kermit another go.’”

Ryder, who also sang with the Happy Mondays, will front Black Grape’s first tour in almost 20 years. It starts at Glasgow’s Garage on June 3 before a show at Edinburgh’s Liquid Room the following night.
The group will then return to Scotland for a Shetlands date on July 4 and Aberdeen Beach Ballroom on July 5.
If all goes well with the tour, a new album could follow.
“Initially, we were going to do a few gigs and those turned into 21 shows,” Ryder said.
“If we’re still getting on all right after that then we’ll &shy;definitely do an album.
“I’m not dealing with all the bulls**t and the nuttiness with the drugs and everything. It’s all positive.”
The shows coincide with the 20th anniversary of Black Grape’s debut album It’s Great When You’re Straight... Yeah.
 

Now clear of various drug addictions – including heroin and crack cocaine – Ryder, 52, thinks the title of that album couldn’t be more appropriate, though all he ever wanted to do was “get higher” during the recording sessions.
“It was pretty much like all the recording sessions back then,” Ryder said. “I was off my t**s and, by the second album, it completely crumbled.
“I’m not just saying this now because we are trying to sell the damned thing but, years ago on the treadmill with Happy Mondays and Black Grape, we were off our t**s.

“I took more drugs because I thought it would be easier but it wasn’t.
“I’m glad I went through everything. You get one life and it goes really quickly. Then you wake up one morning and you’re 52 years old.
“So, if you’re a young kid, you just go for it. That’s what it’s about.”
Ryder was also depicted in Michael Winterbottom’s 2002 film 24 Hour Party People about Factory Records boss Tony Wilson but claims the movie didn’t tell the whole story.
“The thing about 24 Hour Party People is that it’s a comedy,” he said. “If I was like that guy, I wouldn’t have got out of bed.
“I didn’t have any involvement in the film. It was a good movie but Michael Winterbottom did caricatures of people like Tony and me. I didn’t want anything to do with it. I’m sure there are going to be many films about that era.”
Ryder admits his hedonistic rock’n’roll lifestyle came first during that period and he spent little time with some of his children, who have since grown up.
Ryder – who was the runner-up in the 10th series of I’m a Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here! – has six kids from three relationships.
 

But despite the drug abuse, he says he has no regrets and claims he draws the line, these days, at a couple of pints down the local pub.
“I’ve had a great, interesting life and it’s fantastic to come out the other end and start being a dad again in my late forties,” Ryder said.

“The first time around, I was making a career and didn’t see my kids growing up. I didn’t even know them. I wasn’t there. I was working but I’m sure there are lots of mums and dads who have careers and are working – that’s how it is.
“This time, I’ve got two girls, six and seven. I’m getting to do it all over again – and properly this time so I’m over the moon.”
He added: “It’s brilliant now. I enjoy going onstage, playing songs and realising how good they are.
“We are middle-aged men without the bulls**t of being young men. Now, there’s no sex, only at home.
“I still have a couple of pints but we don’t have booze at home and my health is fantastic.”
 Now, under the management of former Creation Records boss Alan McGee, Ryder said: “Black Grape was me and Kermit. Everyone in the band was a session man. 
“I brought in Bez from Happy Mondays because he was my pal and was pretty much doing the same as he did in the Mondays – and that lasted five minutes. He did a couple of videos and was gone.
“The writing team was me and Kermit. When we got back together and rehearsed for the first time in 20 years, it was like it was yesterday.
“McGee thought we had been secretly practising. With him in charge, it’s great. For the first time, all of us agree with the manager.
“He has respect from the band. Before, we always had fallouts and arguments with people.”
 Try our quick entertainment quiz: 

