 DOGS can be much more than family pets and specially trained canines can provide vital  support to transform the lives of disabled people. 
 The charity Canine Partners, who provide assistance dogs for the disabled, are holding a huge  fundraising event on Sunday. 
The Big Glasgow Bluebell Walk will take place at Rouken Glen Park, in Glasgow’s south side, and thousands are expected to attend.
Canine Partners fundraiser Dale Gormley, who has organised the event, said: “Besides the walk itself, there will be loads of activities – face painting, tombola, a demonstration from one of our amazing assistance dogs and much more.”
The Record met one woman whose life has been transformed by her assistance dog, Remus.
When Zoe Maclean drops her mobile phone, Remus is there to pick it up for her.
He gets her clothes in the morning so she can can dressed and even fetches his own breakfast bowl out of the cupboard.
Zoe has cerebral palsy and golden retriever Remus has been trained by Canine Partners to support her.
Having Remus around has meant that Zoe, 30, from Fairlie in Ayrshire, can be much more independent, knowing that her dog can support her and has been trained to get help in an emergency.
 Zoe was diagnosed with the condition when she was two. It affects her balance so she mainly  uses a wheelchair to get around. 
She said: “I find some everyday tasks challenging – such as picking up things I’ve dropped on the floor, dressing and undressing, and opening and closing doors.”
Zoe and her mum Barbara heard Canine Partners were expanding into Scotland and got in touch with them.
Zoe applied to be considered for a support dog and Barbara volunteered to take on a puppy for training.
Barbara had Remus from when he was an eight-week-old puppy. She taught him basic skills and took him to weekly training classes before he was sent to advanced training at the charity’s headquarters in Sussex.
 

The family weren’t sure whether they would see Remus again then Zoe was invited to the headquarters to begin her assessment for a canine partner and she was paired up with Remus four years ago.
“I worked with a variety of different dogs, each with their own personality and character,” said Zoe. “One of the dogs I worked with was Remus and I was really pleased to see him. We were both assessed very carefully and it soon became clear that we clicked.
“When we came home, Remus immediately started carrying out tasks to help me on a daily basis. He lifts my wheelchair plates up and down, takes my jacket off and gives it to me to hang up, opens and closes doors, and presses lift and door switches. He helps me take clothing off and also helps me to dress by passing clothes to me to put on.
“He has been trained to fetch help in an emergency, which gives me and my family peace of mind that I am always in safe paws. Remus is with me, whatever I do and wherever I go.
“He’s given me the confidence and independence to go places on my own. I wouldn’t be without him. He’s my best friend and is with me all the time.
“He doesn’t see my wheelchair or my disability and accepts me for who I am.”
Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

