Coverage: Listen on BBC Radio Scotland 92-95FM/810MW/DAB/online; live text commentary BBC Sport website
 On-loan Nottingham Forest defender Louis Laing is again extremely doubtful for Motherwell as they host Kilmarnock. 
 Left-back Steven Hammell is closer to a return, but wide man Zaine Franncis-Angol and midfielders Iain Vigurs and Paul Lawson again miss out. 
 Kilmarnock defender Mark Connolly has resumed training after breaking his collarbone at the end of February. 
 Midfielder Jamie Hamill is fit again after ankle surgery, but striker Michael Ngoo remains on the sidelines. 
  Motherwell manager Ian Baraclough:  &quot;We're in a good place at the moment. I think we have played better than what the last two results have yielded. 
 &quot;We've got good players and we are in there fighting and battling. 
 &quot;There has been no speak of the play-offs, it has not been mentioned at all. 
 &quot;I have watched teams that are in the play-offs because you have to, but we intend not to be there. 
 &quot;The players are in the mindset that they can go and win the next three games and put pressure on the teams above us, especially Kilmarnock. 
 &quot;We will hopefully play on the fact that they are on a poor run themselves. 
 &quot;It's difficult to suddenly switch from six defeats to thinking we are a decent side. Players have doubts and players have doubts in each other. 
 &quot;We have had that period and managed to get some decent results off the back of it.&quot; 
  Kilmarnock manager Gary Locke:  &quot;There were spells in last week's game where I felt we played well. 
 &quot;If you score two goals at home, that should be enough to get something out of the game, so we have to eradicate some of the goals we have been losing. 
 &quot;We've been making mistakes and that has cost us, but a lot of that is down to confidence. 
 &quot;When you are on a good run, everybody wants the ball. When you are having a difficult time, some players don't do that as much as they can. 
 &quot;The only way to get through it is to dig in, but the boys are doing that to be fair.&quot; 
