Venue: Liberty Stadium, Swansea Date: Friday, 8 May Kick-off: 19:35
Coverage: Live on BBC Two Wales, HD, Red Button, the BBC Sport app, Connected TV and the BBC Sport website and live text on the BBC website.
 Wales flanker Dan Lydiate is on the bench for Ospreys' key Pro12 match with Glasgow at Liberty Stadium on Friday. 
 Lydiate makes way for James King as Jeff Hassler returns at wing following injury. 
 Leaders Glasgow make five changes from the team that beat Connacht in Galway in the last round of matches. 
 Duncan Weir replaces Finn Russell at fly-half, and there are four changes in the pack with captain Josh Strauss returning at number eight. 
 Ospreys' Canada Hassler, 23, international has not played since 31 October because of a knee injury. 
 Other Glasgow changes see Ryan Grant come in for Jerry Yanuyanutawa at loose-head, Pat MacArthur replace Fraser Brown at hooker with Tim Swinson coming in for Leone Nakarawa in the second-row. 
 Following two recent showings from the bench, Weir is making his first start since recovering from a bicep injury sustained in December. 
 Ryan Wilson is among the Warriors replacements, having served a three-month suspension without pay following his conviction for assault. 
 Both teams have already secured their places in the end-of-season play-offs with only four points between fourth-placed Ospreys and leaders Glasgow, with two matches remaining. 
 A win for the Scots would secure a home draw in the play-off, which is also the target for their hosts on Friday. 
 Ospreys expect a big crowd for the match, continuing a year-on-year increase which will see their average home attendance pass 8,000. 
 The record highest attendance for Ospreys v Glasgow is 7,195 and the Swansea-based region have already sold more than 10,000 tickets for Friday's clash. 
 Ospreys chief executive Andrew Hore said: &quot;It's clear that our supporters appreciate the hard work and effort that has gone in to put us where we are in the table at the moment. That's reflected by the increase in crowds. 
 Four-time champions Ospreys still have hopes of securing home advantage in the play-offs, and centre Josh Matavesi has welcomed Hassler's return. 
 &quot;Physicality, running over people - that's what he brings,&quot; said Matavesi. 
 &quot;He also brings real intelligence and he knows his roles, knows where to be. 
 &quot;No disrespect to [fellow winger] Tom Grabham but I think Jeff is a bit more physical than most wingers in the Pro12, so it's nice to have him on your shoulder.&quot; 
 Ospreys lock Lloyd Peers is out for the rest of the season with a chest muscle injury suffered in the win over Cardiff Blues. 
  Ospreys:  Dan Evans; Jeff Hassler, Ben John, Josh Matavesi, Eli Walker; Dan Biggar, Rhys Webb; Nicky Smith, Scott Baldwin, Aaron Jarvis, Tyler Ardron, Alun Wyn Jones (capt), James King, Justin Tipuric, Dan Baker. 
  Replacements:  Sam Parry, Marc Thomas, Dmitri Arhip, Rory Thornton, Dan Lydiate, Tom Habberfield, Sam Davies, Jonathan Spratt. 
  Glasgow Warriors:  Stuart Hogg; Tommy Seymour, Richie Vernon, Peter Horne, Niko Matawalu; Duncan Weir, Henry Pyrgos; Ryan Grant, Pat MacArthur, Jon Welsh, Tim Swinson, Jonny Gray, Rob Harley, Chris Fusaro, Josh Strauss (Captain) 
  Replacements  Fraser Brown, Gordon Reid, Euan Murray, Leone Nakarawa, Ryan Wilson, Lee Jones, Fraser Lyle, Peter Murchie. 
  Referee:  George Clancy (IRFU) 
  Assistant Referees:  Neil Hennessy, Martyn Lewis (WRU) 
  Citing Commissioner:  John Charles (WRU ) 
  TMO:  Derek Bevan (WRU) 
