HAVING enjoyed a thoroughly successful amateur career, Cleland boxer Ross Henderson has made the jump to the professional game as he bids for new titles to add to his impressive collection.
The super-heavyweight fighter has competed for Scotland at two Commonwealth Games and won countless honours at various tournaments, but he has now signed with MGM Scotland promotions and will make his pro debut at Glasgow’s Bellahouston Sports Centre on June 12 against an as-yet unnamed opponent.
His preparations for that date are already underway however, and he is training with Billy Nelson – the man who coached Coatbridge’s Ricky Burns to World Title glory.
And while a World title may be a stretch too far for Henderson, he is targeting other honours in the not-too-distant future.
He told the Wishaw Press:“I want to be fighting for British and Commonwealth titles within a few years.
“Just now, it’s all about building up a platform so I can go and have a crack at them.
“Billy knows the pro game inside out, and it is a totally different style to the amateurs.
“He’s also training a number of other pros, and it’s good being in the gym and learning from them.”
Going from amateur to professional is the natural progression for most boxers, but there are a number of major differences between the two games.
Henderson continued: “The practice rounds are much longer and the training is much longer too.
“I’ve not been doing much sparring yet, but the key seems to be to take to the ring and dominate, whereas in the amateurs it was a bit tippy-tappy and it went at 100mph.”
The Cleland man also reckons his experience at fighting for Scotland at both the Delhi and Glasgow Commonwealth Games will stand him in good stead in his professional career.
“Fighting at two Games has given me the chance to fight at what I believe to be one of the highest international levels,” added the 28 year-old.
“I’ve got 300-odd fights under my belt too, and that’s also helped me build a bit of a fanbase so I won’t be starting from scratch.
“But it all starts from my first pro-fight – there will be a lot to learn and a lot to take in with a different atmosphere and different faces and the like.
“I’m buzzing though to get in the ring, get the vest off and show what I can do.”
 ●Ross would like to put on record his thanks to sponsors Zone 74 and Protein Jakes. 
 You can buy tickets for Ross’ debut professional fight by calling him on 07712133142. 
