SHE’S cycled through Sri Lanka, India, Cuba and Jordan but Fern Britton reckons Scotland is one of the most beautiful places she’s visited.
The presenter and author is riding 1000 miles from John O’Groats to Land’s End to help out the Genesis Research Trust for &shy;#Challenge57, a charitable &shy;celebration on her 57th birthday.
The former This Morning presenter had covered 356 miles when I met her in Glasgow’s Argyll Hotel to join her on part of her ride, and despite enduring seven hours of rain, saddlesoreness and city centre potholes, she was in high spirits.
 She said: “It’s been colder and very wet but Scotland is just so blooming beautiful. It has blown us away. 

 “We’ve cycled up the West &shy;Highland Way, went past Loch Lomond and did a five-mile climb up the Rest and Be Thankful.  The hills are huge and really &shy;challenging and all of us have done it.” 
Five-star hotels and &shy;chauffeur-driven limos are not an option but Fern looks as comfortable riding her old faithful as she does on a TV sofa. She said: “You get to see more of the real sights &shy;travelling this way.”
 Riding a &pound;650 hybrid Whyte bike, &shy;courtesy of local bike boutique Billy Bilsland Cycles, I joined her on the roads through Glasgow city centre. 
The bike is a lot lighter and faster than the vintage Raleigh I inherited as a wee girl, and it gets a lot of compliments from the 25 friendly ladies who are also on the ride for the charity set up to improve the health of women and babies.
Obligatory cycle shorts and Lycra leggings may have meant my behind was more exposed but I soon learned why is padding necessary.
 

Fern agreed to buddy me on the first leg of her journey from &shy;Sauchiehall Street to Castlemilk, taking in the squinty bridge and Cathcart Road.
She told me: “Don’t ride too close to the person in front in case they stop. If you stop, shout, ‘Stopping’. Look out for potholes and enjoy.”
As bemused drivers toot their horns, she tells me about her day off which gave her the chance to catch up with her son, as well as apply cream to her tender bits. She said: “When we arrived on Wednesday night I ran a bath. One of the cyclists was training to be a masseur and brought her students to massage us.
“I also met up with my son Jack, who is at Glasgow Univeristy &shy;studying music, English and French. We went to the cinema before I went to Boots to get all the things I needed.”
Conversation is interrupted near the Squinty Bridge as a taxi driver asks Fern if she is lost, unaware he’s talking to one of the UK’s most famous TV faces.
As we make our way to through Govan to Cathcart Road, Fern talks politics. She sent off a postal vote.

She said: “I went to bed at 10 o’clock and woke at 6.30am to see how &shy;brilliantly the SNP have done in &shy;Scotland.
“It was goodbye to old faces like Charles Kennedy but it’s joyful that we have some really strong women.
“Maybe Yvette Cooper will take over Labour. I’d be useless in politics because when everyone in the cabinet wanted to go and pick their kids up from school I’d let them.”
Looking at the determined women on her charity cycle, Fern certainly isn’t lacking the girl power.
 Donate and find out more at www.fernbrittonchallenge57.com 
 
