DAREDEVIL Danny Charge is set to climb into the nation’s hearts when he takes on the toughest obstacle course ever seen on TV – but admits his worst injury came when he fell in his house.
The urban sportman, who makes his debut on ITV extreme game show Ninja Warrior tonight said: “I injured myself falling down some small steps in the house.
“I do all this crazy stuff and then I slipped on a step and compressed my coccyx. I was unable to walk for six months, but I’m fine now.”
And pole fit instructor Danny, 29, who lives with fianc&eacute;e Carol Ritchie in Kilsyth, Lanarkshire, has vowed to do his all-action best for Scotland on the show, which has been described as the ultimate test of strength, speed and courage.
A smash hit in the US, Sweden, Malaysia and Japan, the programme, which started in the UK two weeks ago, is hosted by Ben Shephard, Rochelle Humes and Chris Kamara.
But Danny, who will appear alongside a group of other super-human athletes, won’t say whether he managedto finish the challenge but said: “This was an extreme assault course like Total Wipeout is but a more serious version of it. It pushes people to the limit rather than sticking them on a big red ball and watching them bounce about.

“For the first auditions in Glasgow, we were put through our paces to see what our capabilities were. They set up small obstacles for us to do pull ups, bar hangs and run up walls at Glasgow Cross Fit.
 
“For some people it was hard going. I don’t really do nerves but I was excited because I’d seen the Japanese version of the show in my early teens. It used to be aired on cable boxes.
“We only had to wait a couple of weeks to see if we got through and, when they called, I was over the moon. Everything was secretive but we went to Manchester Conference Centre in March and there were 250 of us there taking part in the show, who had been chosen from 6000.”
Danny added: “I just went for it. I’d done some telly before so I was comfortable in front of the cameras. The actual course is far more difficult though.
“They tested our balance with things like dancing stones, balancing on balls on top of pillars which we had to walk across, and a ring toss which involved holding on to a couple of rings while swinging from peg to peg, as well as the warped wall, like a skater’s half pipe which kept ascending, that we had to run and jump over.”
“We stayed overnight to film it. Fifty people take on each heat, with 10 people going through from each one before the semi finals.
 

“When the cameras were on me, I just went for it. I can’t say how I fared at this point but it was tough and there were some of the UK’s best athletes.
He added: “The hosts Ben, Chris and Rochelle were so nice. I chatted with Rochelle and she’s a fantastic girl. Ben is a lovely guy and tried out the course as well.
 
 
“I trained like an absolute beast for it using the Trim Trail with its monkey bar and rails in Glasgow along the path of the Forth and Clyde canal.”
Danny can often be seen swinging off Scotland’s landmarks to show off his urban pole skills, which combines his loves of climbing and breakdancing.
He said: “I’ve always like daredevil sports but when I first told my mum I started pole dance, she said ‘What? For money?’
“I was a photographer and originally photographed a pole fitness competition, and fancied giving it a shot. The athleticism of it all was the attraction.
“I went to my first class in Edinburgh two-and-half years ago because I saw the aspect of fitness. I now teach students pole fit in the Twirl and Turn fitness studio.
 

“I had done parkour since I was 17 and running about with my pals for a bit of fun. I like to push myself because I don’t get scared of much. I do free climbing and have scaled 100ft rock faces with no ropes.”
Danny, who has a fitness pole in his house and films video demonstrations for his students, likes to practise urban pole at well-known locations and once hung off Glasgow’s Kingston Bridge without a safety net.
He said: “I was hanging over the water with no harness or anything and didn’t find it scary. We took some pictures of me doing it but, when we went back to get other pics, the police stopped me in my tracks.
“They were worried I’d harm myself although it was quite comfy and I had a really good grip up there. When you are up that height, you make sure you hold on because the wind is strong.”
Edinburgh’s Calton Hill and Princes Street Gardens have also seen Danny in action.
He said: “It’s very difficult when you are hanging on and there is a lot of pressure on your top foot.
 

“It’s not meant to take it, so it takes a lot of training. I usually jump or flip to get back on to the ground and I’m quite agile.
“I did fall over 25ft down Arthur’s Seat but I fell properly in a roll, picked myself up and went back to the top.”
Danny, who dressed up in an Iron Man morphsuit for his stunts by the Clyde, George Square and Royal Exchange Square, wants to start doing his own stunt work and has acted as stunt coordinator on a film project.
Now he wants to conquer one of his most ambitious projects yet – but he’s not sure if anyone will let him.
He said: “I want to do the flag pole at the top of Edinburgh Castle.
“I contacted them in the early days to see if they’d let me, even for charity. Nobody has come back to me about it. I weigh just under 11 stone and always take my own body weight, so as long as the pole is strong enough I reckon it would be fine.”
Try our quick entertainment quiz below:

