DOTING grandmother Anne Smith loves playing with her two grandsons but her thoughts are never far  away from their little brother who sadly died at just two days old.
Jack is five and Charlie is four and they’re both full of fun. But as Charlie met his milestones such as learning to crawl, talk and walk, Anne thought of his twin Harry.
She said: “It brings some comfort to see Charlie growing up. We love him as the character he is – he is a real cheeky Charlie. We give blessings we have him, it could have been worse and  we could have lost both. It’s a miracle Charlie survived.  He was a little fighter.
“But for anyone who’s lost  a child, you still think of them every birthday and anniversary. I’m only the grandmother and I feel it – for parents it must be worse. You expect your parents to die, you expect older siblings to die. But you don’t expect children to die. You should  not outlive children.”
Anne, 53, who lives in Glasgow with third husband, Gordon, 47, says: “You never get over the loss of a child –  it’s not something you can  ever accept.”
But her own strong beliefs mean she feels that she will be with her grandson again one day.
Anne works as a psychic medium, touring the country as Angel Anne. Although she says her ability brings her comfort, it can also be  a burden if she has a vision of something she’d rather not see.
She was delighted to become a  grandmother when her son Donald and his then partner Toni had their first child Jack in November 2009. But Anne was initially worried about the baby.
She said: “While Toni was pregnant with Jack, I had a vision of her being upset and holding a very tiny baby.
“I thought at that point there was maybe something wrong with Jack. Then Donald phoned me in the small hours so say  that Jack was born and was a healthy eight-and-a-half pounds. When I went up  to see him the next day, I thought, ‘That’s weird. That’s not the baby I saw’. Jack was  a big bouncy baby and very healthy.”
Anne was confused about what her vision might mean. Then, within a few weeks of Jack being born, she had a sense Toni was pregnant again.
Toni was expecting twins but had complications at 30 weeks and went into hospital. The two boys were eventually born at 34 weeks. Harry weighed 6lb 7oz but Charlie was tiny and was only around 2lb.
Anne said: “Unfortunately Harry’s membranes had ruptured so he was starved of oxygen. At first they thought he was stillborn but then he breathed. They discovered quite a lot of brain damage and didn’t think he would live hours, let alone days. It was very, very difficult.
“The whole flashback of the vision of when Toni was pregnant with Jack came back to me. If they’d been born at 30 weeks, Harry may have survived but Charlie wouldn’t have because he was so small. Sticking on the extra four weeks, Charlie survived and Harry didn’t.
“Toni is like a daughter to me. Watching your children suffer and watching their baby die is one of the hardest things ever.”
Anne says when Harry died two days later, her son Donald had a sense he was being comforted by the spirit world.
She said: “He said that night he knew he wasn’t alone. He felt people sitting beside him and knew Harry was going to a better place and that gave him a bit of comfort.”
Sadly Toni and Donald split up but Anne still spends time with her grandsons and enjoys taking them out on their bikes and  to the park to feed the ducks. She counts her blessings she can spend time with the boys – and admits the loss of Harry and other family bereavements have made her question her faith.
Anne’s own mother lost two children. One of Anne’s sisters died of pneumonia as a baby, the other in a car accident at 13. And Anne’s sister lost one of her twin boys during an operation. She questioned  her faith when Harry died too.
She said: “To go through that when a  family had already gone through so much seemed unfair. You do question your faith in God at that time.
“It’s still sad. Harry would have been five this August and would have been going to school with Charlie. It is always difficult, every birthday every Christmas.
“As a parent or grandparent, I don’t  think you get over it. There are days when you still get emotional.”
After Harry died, Anne says she had a vision, while meditating, where she saw a nurse dressed in a uniform from the First World War.
She said: “I noticed she had something in her hands and I realised she’d placed a baby in my arms and I looked down and it was Harry. I could touch him and smell him. It was the most wonderful experience ever.
“In my shows I tell people it’s wonderful  if you get a message from a medium to know that your loved ones are still with you. For me, that gave me the hope and the proof that life is eternal and I will see my grandson again and my sisters, my nephew and my father. I will see these people again. Even though I’ve seen spirits and communicated with spirits, this was a tangible real experience.”
She says she saw Harry appear over the next six months.
She said: “He crawled the week before Charlie crawled and gave me his first word the week before Charlie said his first word and he walked the week before Charlie walked. I haven’t seen him since then  but I know he’s still around.
“We give blessings that we have Charlie, we could have lost both of them.
“When it’s so close and it touches you so strongly, you do question your faith and I asked, ‘Why am I a spiritualist? Why am I doing this work? Why has another child gone to the spirit world? What’s the lesson we’re learning from this?’
“But feeling Harry  in that meditation, feeling so real, that brought back my faith. I thought, ‘This  isn’t the end’.”
Anne says her ability comes with responsibility.
She added: “Sometimes people say I’ve got a gift but if they saw half the things I  saw they wouldn’t think it was a gift.
“It’s just my make up is slightly different, which allows me to pick up the higher vibration. I’ve seen things about my family for the future that I don’t want to be aware of. I’ve got to carry that burden. It’s not always a happy gift. But it still brings hope. For me it helps me to know I will meet Harry again.”
For more information go to www.angelanne.co.uk

