POLICE have launched an attempted murder inquiry after a man was run over by a car and then shot by one of the occupants in what police believe was a targeted attack.
The 29-year-old victim had just got out of his Audi car in Royston Road, Glasgow, when a white Mitsubishi 4x4 drove at him deliberately and knocked him to the ground.
After driving a short distance, the car returned and one of the men got out and shot the man whilst he was on the ground.
The 4x4 was recovered a short time later.
The victim was taken by ambulance to hospital where his condition is described as serious but stable.
Police have appealed for information about the incident, which happened at around 6.30pm yesterday.
Detective Inspector Ogilvie Ross, of Greater Glasgow CID, said: “I believe this was a targeted attack. The man had just got out of his Audi car in Royston Road when he was deliberately driven at and knocked to the ground by the occupants of a white Mitsubishi 4x4.
“After driving a short distance, the car returned and one of the men got out and shot the man whilst he was on the ground. The 4x4 was recovered in Robroyston a short time later.
“Officers are carrying out door-to-door inquiries and are checking CCTV to find out who was responsible.
“Did you see the white 4x4 Mitsubishi vehicle speed off from the area of Royston Road or did you see the car being driven erratically from the area, or did you see the car anywhere in between Royston Road and the Robroyston areas of Greater Glasgow?
“It is imperative that we catch those responsible for this attack. Thankfully no-one else was injured but it is very obvious that those responsible did not have any thought for the safety of the locals as Royston Road is residential with lots of people about especially at that time of the evening and to discharge a firearm in that kind of area and especially at that time is absolutely outrageous.”
Police do not believe that the incident is linked to the shooting in Haywood Street, Glasgow, earlier in the spring.
