Ideal Home Show ambassador Amanda Lamb tells a tale that will resonate with big sisters everywhere.
As a youngster, she had to share a bedroom with her little sister who was six years younger. While she yearned at the time for Laura Ashley prints and a romantic bedroom, she had to put up with a gallery of Care Bears and Cabbage Patch dolls.
She said: “I am sure my love of interiors comes from that – a psychologist would tell me that is the reason why.
“But I have always loved houses and design. I left school at 15 and my first job was with a local estate agent.
“The other thing is I am inherently nosy and I love seeing inside people’s houses. My favourite time of year is in autumn when it gets dark and everyone still has their curtains open because I can look in their windows and see what their houses are like.”
As a television presenter, Amanda has run the full gamut of housing shows like Place in the Sun, Selling Houses, Beat My Build, See What The Neighbours Did.
At the Ideal Home Show Scotland later this month, she will join the other ambassadors, people like Greg Wallace, Diarmuid Gavin, George Clarke and John Amabile to pass on tips she has gleaned over the years from the experts.
She is determined to help those who have fallen into a homes rut to turn their house back into a palace and will give a masterclass on how to create a space you want to spend time in rather than one you want to leave.
Her top tip? Declutter – something which she admits she is a bit obsessive about. She said: “It is the best way to transform a house inexpensively – and make money at the same time. Any house I go into with a lot of clutter looks a hundred times better once you clear it out and add a lick of paint. And it costs practically nothing.
“A lot of people are incredibly sentimental about things but there is a time and place for these things – and that’s the loft.
“If you have a lot of clutter, don’t feel daunted. Choose one room and work through the house a room at a time. Get four boxes and make one your sentimental box, and put stuff you don’t want to get rid of in there like things the kids made and old photographs.
“Have a box of stuff you are going to recycle like broken toys or chipped mugs and then a box you are going to sell on eBay or at a car boot sale so that you can make some money.
“And, of course, a box of the things you are keeping.”
Amanda reckons everyone keeps too much stuff in their house and she actively tries to keep it all to a minimum.
When summer comes, winter clothes go into a big box and are put up in the loft until autumn. Boots and shoes are sent up there too so that she only has seasonal clothes in her wardrobe.
Even the kids do not escape the eagle-eyed Lamb regime.
Amanda has two youngsters and says storage is the key. With the help of a friendly upholsterer, an ancient 1960s ottoman has become a lovely toy box into which she admits she does a “minesweep” at the end of the day.
MDF cupboards have been delicately painted and now selectively hold art materials, games stuff and dressing up clothes. The trick is that all these pieces of storage can be closed so that the area around them looks neat and uncluttered.
Amanda said: “Anything you can find that can hide it all away is brilliant and works well and sometimes you have to think outside the box.
“Be ruthless too. My kids will kill me when they grow up but I have what is called a “holding zone”. I get a hug bag and anything they have not played with for a while or dolls or teddies that have been lying around, I put into the bag and it goes into the loft for about six months. If they don’t ask after it, it finds its way to a charity shop.
“I have friends with kids of 11 and 12 who still have toys lying around they played with when they were two. You have got to let go of things.”
“You are clearing your house out and by sending stuff to a charity shop you are helping others as well.”
My goodness, Amanda is a genius and I consider asking her if the holding zone works for husbands too – but decide she is still too newly married to understand.
Amanda Lamb will be at the Ideal Home Show Scotland at the SECC, Glasgow, 22nd - 25th May. To buy tickets or for information on the show go to www.idealhomeshowscotland.co.uk
