By Kenny Crawford
BBC Sport Scotland at New Douglas Park
 Hamilton Academical and Partick Thistle will each have a key player undergoing a knee injury scan on Monday. 
 Accies defender Mikey Devlin and Jags midfielder Ryan Stevenson both had to be replaced in the first half of Saturday's 1-1 draw in Hamilton. 
 &quot;Mikey planted his leg and felt something in his knee, so he's quite uncomfortable,&quot; said Martin Canning. 
 And Jags managerial counterpart Alan Archibald added: &quot;Ryan caught his knee in the turf and thinks [it] locked.&quot; 
 Stephen O'Donnell fired the eighth-place Jags in front in South Lanarkshire but 18-year-old substitute Greg Docherty headed an equaliser - his first goal for Hamilton. 
 &quot;I'm delighted for him,&quot; said Canning. &quot;To get his first senior goal is a moment that will live with him forever. 
 &quot;That's obviously the idea now, to try and get as many youngsters on between now and the end of the season. There's plenty coming through and it's just a case of trying to get them an opportunity when we can.&quot; 
 Seventh-place Accies are now unbeaten in three games and have taken seven points from nine in the process. The gap between them and Thistle is five points with two games remaining. 
 &quot;That had the feeling of an end of season game,&quot; explained Canning. &quot;There was nothing between the teams and if you go down to chances, it's probably a fair result. 
 &quot;It's another positive in terms of going 1-0 down and the boys sticking at it and getting the goal. That's last week and this week that we've lost the first goal, but we've taken four points from the games.&quot; 
 Canning, who was appointed as Alex Neil's successor in January, believes seventh place in the Premiership would be &quot;a great finish&quot; and stresses they will try to hold on to talent like right-back Ziggy Gordon in the summer. 
 &quot;We've got to strike the balance between youth coming through and bringing in two or three that can help the youth squad find their feet,&quot; he said. 
 &quot;We'll be looking for the couple that can make the difference then obviously we've got the youth as well.&quot; 
 Archibald, whose side went four matches unbeaten, has 12 players out of contract in the summer, including goal scorer O'Donnell who wants to pursue a career in England. 
 On-loan striker Lyle Taylor is one whose stay at Firhill Archibald may try and prolong into next season. 
 &quot;Yes quite possibly,&quot; he told BBC Scotland. &quot;It's a bit more complicated with Lyle, obviously he's got a contract at Scunthorpe so we'll get to the end of the season then we'll cross that bridge. 
 &quot;First and foremost we need to deal with the ones that are here - our players - and try and get them signed up. 
 &quot;We've spoken to most of them and it's just a matter of whether they want to sign. We can only do so much with our budget, but it's a good place to come and play.&quot; 
 The difference between finishing seventh and eighth in the league is &pound;45,000 of Scottish Professional Football League prize money, so Archibald hopes to keep the flickering hope of overtaking Hamilton alive. 
 &quot;It's valuable and it would certainly go a long way to helping us,&quot; he added. &quot;We'll keep on going. 
 &quot;That was the biggest disappointment today; we thought we could apply a bit more pressure on Hamilton but there's an outside chance. 
 &quot;It was disappointing the way we lost the goal because I didn't think Hamilton looked like scoring in that last 10 minutes. A set play, which is even more disappointing, because we've been strong in that area of late&quot; 
