  Docherty 85′  
  O'Donnell 72′  
 Greg Docherty's first goal for Hamilton ensured Accies took a point against Partick Thistle in the battle for seventh place in the Premiership. 
 The 18-year-old substitute headed in Ali Crawford's deep corner to deny the Jags a fourth straight win. 
 Stephen O'Donnell had earlier given Thistle the lead by turning in Kallum Higginbotham's cut-back. 
 Jesus Garcia Tena hit the underside of the crossbar for Accies in an injury-interrupted first half. 
 A point apiece keeps five points between the sides with six to play for. 
 Despite these sides having already secured top flight status for next season, Hamilton boss Martin Canning and Partick Thistle manager Alan Archibald both stressed this was in no way a meaningless end of season match. 
 The carrot dangling in front of the club's is the extra &pound;45,000 of SPFL prize money that seventh place brings in comparison to eighth - which could be what allows a team to sign one extra player in the summer. 
 Injuries broke up any chance of real flowing football in the first half, Lyle Taylor blasting over when well-placed in between Accies' Mikey Devlin going off and Jags' Ryan Stevenson needing replaced. 
 Louis Longridge had a sighter go wide before Tena cracked the woodwork from a free-kick 20 yards out. 
 The Spaniard's left-footer had beaten Scott Fox but came down off the underside of the bar and out. It looked mightily close to being over the line in real time but the officials did not signal a goal. 
 Thankfully the goalmouth was breached after the break. O'Donnell, eager for a move to England when his contract expires in the summer, found himself in the box to steer home side-footed following sterling work by Higginbotham at the by-line. 
 However, Thistle's hopes of cutting the gap between them and their hosts were dashed when Docherty, who has been at the club since the age of eight, popped up at the back post to rescue a point. 
    Full Time  Match ends, Hamilton Academical 1, Partick Thistle 1. 
    Full Time  Second Half ends, Hamilton Academical 1, Partick Thistle 1. 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Stephen O'Donnell. 
 (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Kris Doolan (Partick Thistle). 
 Foul by Ali Crawford (Hamilton Academical). 
 Conrad Balatoni (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Jesus Garcia Tena (Hamilton Academical). 
 Kris Doolan (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Darren Lyon (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Kris Doolan (Partick Thistle). 
 Corner, Partick Thistle. Conceded by Darren Lyon. 
 Foul by Louis Longridge (Hamilton Academical). 
 Stephen O'Donnell (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
  Goal!  Goal! Hamilton Academical 1, Partick Thistle 1. Greg Docherty (Hamilton Academical) header from the right side of the six yard box to the top left corner. Assisted by Ali Crawford with a cross. 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Stephen O'Donnell. 
 Kieran MacDonald (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Kallum Higginbotham (Partick Thistle). 
 Foul by Darren Lyon (Hamilton Academical). 
 Gary Fraser (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Hamilton Academical. Greg Docherty replaces Darian MacKinnon. 
 Lucas (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Kris Doolan (Partick Thistle). 
 Foul by Lucas (Hamilton Academical). 
 Kris Doolan (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
  Booking  Darian MacKinnon (Hamilton Academical) is shown the yellow card. 
 Foul by Darian MacKinnon (Hamilton Academical). 
 James Craigen (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Darren Lyon (Hamilton Academical). 
 Kris Doolan (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
  Goal!  Goal! Hamilton Academical 0, Partick Thistle 1. Stephen O'Donnell (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from the right side of the box to the bottom left corner. Assisted by Kallum Higginbotham. 
 Attempt saved. James Craigen (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Foul by Nigel Hasselbaink (Hamilton Academical). 
 (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Scott Fox. 
 Attempt saved. Nigel Hasselbaink (Hamilton Academical) right footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Attempt missed. Darren Lyon (Hamilton Academical) right footed shot from outside the box is too high. 
  Booking  Ali Crawford (Hamilton Academical) is shown the yellow card. 
 Nigel Hasselbaink (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Kallum Higginbotham (Partick Thistle). 
  Substitution  Substitution, Partick Thistle. Kris Doolan replaces Lyle Taylor. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Hamilton Academical. Nigel Hasselbaink replaces Jason Scotland. 
 Foul by Stephen O'Donnell (Partick Thistle). 
 Louis Longridge (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Callum Booth (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Louis Longridge (Hamilton Academical). 
 Attempt missed. Jesus Garcia Tena (Hamilton Academical) right footed shot from more than 35 yards misses to the left. 
 Kallum Higginbotham (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Grant Gillespie (Hamilton Academical). 
 Corner, Partick Thistle. Conceded by Louis Longridge. 
   Second Half begins Hamilton Academical 0, Partick Thistle 0. 
    Half Time  First Half ends, Hamilton Academical 0, Partick Thistle 0. 
 Jesus Garcia Tena (Hamilton Academical) hits the bar with a right footed shot from outside the box. 
 Foul by James Craigen (Partick Thistle). 
 Louis Longridge (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt missed. Louis Longridge (Hamilton Academical) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Hand ball by Stuart Bannigan (Partick Thistle). 
 Conrad Balatoni (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Dougie Imrie (Hamilton Academical). 
 Stephen O'Donnell (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Louis Longridge (Hamilton Academical). 
 Attempt saved. Kallum Higginbotham (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Kallum Higginbotham (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Louis Longridge (Hamilton Academical). 
  Substitution  Substitution, Partick Thistle. Gary Fraser replaces Ryan Stevenson because of an injury. 
 Attempt missed. Louis Longridge (Hamilton Academical) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Foul by James Craigen (Partick Thistle). 
 Dougie Imrie (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Attempt missed. Lyle Taylor (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from the centre of the box is just a bit too high. 
 Foul by Callum Booth (Partick Thistle). 
 Dougie Imrie (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt saved. Ryan Stevenson (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 James Craigen (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Jesus Garcia Tena (Hamilton Academical). 
 Attempt missed. Conrad Balatoni (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high. 
 Corner, Partick Thistle. Conceded by Dougie Imrie. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Hamilton Academical. Lucas replaces Michael Devlin because of an injury. 
 Delay in match Michael Devlin (Hamilton Academical) because of an injury. 
 Attempt saved. Kieran MacDonald (Hamilton Academical) left footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. 
 Attempt missed. Dougie Imrie (Hamilton Academical) left footed shot from outside the box misses to the left. 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Stephen O'Donnell. 
 Corner, Partick Thistle. Conceded by Jesus Garcia Tena. 
   First Half begins. 
 Lineups are announced and players are warming up. 
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
