  Quinn 118′  
 Tony Quinn scored late in extra time to send Queen's Park into the League One play-off final against Stenhousemuir. 
 Following a 2-2 draw at Gayfield, the return at Hampden was a cagey affair and goalless after 90 minutes. 
 With two minutes left of extra time, Quinn found the bottom corner with a shot from Sean Burns' floated corner. 
 The Red Lichties did have chances to grab an away win in normal time but Scott McBride headed over the crossbar and Craig Johnstone fired wide. 
    Full Time  Match ends, Queen's Park 1, Arbroath 0. 
   Second Half Extra Time ends, Queen's Park 1, Arbroath 0. 
 John Carter (Queen's Park) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Ricky Little (Arbroath). 
  Goal!  Goal! Queen's Park 1, Arbroath 0. Tony Quinn (Queen's Park) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom left corner. 
 Corner, Queen's Park. Conceded by Ricky Little. 
 Patrick Slattery (Queen's Park) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Thomas Grant (Arbroath). 
 Corner, Arbroath. Conceded by Patrick Slattery. 
 Foul by Sean Burns (Queen's Park). 
 Bobby Linn (Arbroath) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
   Second Half Extra Time begins Queen's Park 0, Arbroath 0. 
   First Half Extra Time ends, Queen's Park 0, Arbroath 0. 
  Booking  Bryan Wharton (Queen's Park) is shown the yellow card. 
 Foul by Bryan Wharton (Queen's Park). 
 Kevin Nicoll (Arbroath) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Corner, Queen's Park. Conceded by Ricky Little. 
 Attempt blocked. Ross McPherson (Queen's Park) left footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. 
 Corner, Arbroath. Conceded by Gavin Mitchell. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Queen's Park. Ross McPherson replaces Shaun Rooney because of an injury. 
 Foul by Bryan Wharton (Queen's Park). 
 Simon Murray (Arbroath) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Arbroath. Jordan Lowdon replaces Craig Johnstone. 
  Booking  Paul Woods (Queen's Park) is shown the yellow card. 
 Foul by Paul Woods (Queen's Park). 
 Kevin Nicoll (Arbroath) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
   First Half Extra Time begins Queen's Park 0, Arbroath 0. 
    Full Time  Second Half ends, Queen's Park 0, Arbroath 0. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Queen's Park. Conor McVey replaces Vincent Berry. 
 Attempt missed. Paul Woods (Queen's Park) right footed shot from outside the box misses to the right. 
 Corner, Queen's Park. Conceded by Ricky Little. 
 Attempt saved. Simon Murray (Arbroath) left footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Arbroath. Thomas Grant replaces Dylan Carreiro. 
 Attempt missed. John Carter (Queen's Park) header from the left side of the six yard box is just a bit too high. 
 Corner, Arbroath. Conceded by William Muir. 
 Attempt saved. Simon Murray (Arbroath) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top right corner. 
 Attempt saved. Bobby Linn (Arbroath) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom right corner. 
 Foul by Sean Burns (Queen's Park). 
 Bobby Linn (Arbroath) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
  Booking  Ciaran McElroy (Queen's Park) is shown the yellow card. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Queen's Park. Ciaran McElroy replaces Shaun Fraser. 
 Foul by Gavin Mitchell (Queen's Park). 
 Craig Johnstone (Arbroath) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Shaun Fraser (Queen's Park). 
 Mark Whatley (Arbroath) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Attempt missed. Paul Woods (Queen's Park) header from the left side of the six yard box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Attempt missed. Craig Johnstone (Arbroath) left footed shot from the left side of the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Attempt missed. Dylan Carreiro (Arbroath) right footed shot from outside the box is too high. 
 Attempt saved. Bobby Linn (Arbroath) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Liam Gordon (Arbroath) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Shaun Fraser (Queen's Park). 
 Paul Woods (Queen's Park) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Dylan Carreiro (Arbroath). 
 Attempt missed. Gavin Mitchell (Queen's Park) left footed shot from outside the box misses to the left. 
   Second Half begins Queen's Park 0, Arbroath 0. 
    Half Time  First Half ends, Queen's Park 0, Arbroath 0. 
 Shaun Rooney (Queen's Park) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Scott McBride (Arbroath). 
 Corner, Arbroath. Conceded by Sean Burns. 
  Booking  Shaun Rooney (Queen's Park) is shown the yellow card. 
 Foul by Shaun Rooney (Queen's Park). 
 Kevin Nicoll (Arbroath) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Attempt missed. Ricky Little (Arbroath) header from the centre of the box is too high following a set piece situation. 
 Foul by Sean Burns (Queen's Park). 
 Bobby Linn (Arbroath) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Attempt missed. Scott McBride (Arbroath) header from the centre of the box is too high following a corner. 
 Corner, Arbroath. Conceded by Tony Quinn. 
 Attempt blocked. Keiran Stewart (Arbroath) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. 
 Foul by Shaun Fraser (Queen's Park). 
 Kevin Nicoll (Arbroath) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Attempt saved. Dylan Carreiro (Arbroath) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Dylan Carreiro (Arbroath) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Gavin Mitchell (Queen's Park). 
 Foul by Bryan Wharton (Queen's Park). 
 Simon Murray (Arbroath) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Corner, Arbroath. Conceded by Patrick Slattery. 
 Corner, Arbroath. Conceded by Bryan Wharton. 
   First Half begins. 
 Lineups are announced and players are warming up. 
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
