  Smith 44′  
Coverage: Listen on BBC Radio Scotland 810MW/DAB/online; live text commentary on BBC Sport website
    Half Time  First Half ends, Queen of the South 0, Rangers 1. 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Mark Durnan. 
  Goal!  Goal! Queen of the South 0, Rangers 1. Steven Smith (Rangers) from a free kick with a left footed shot to the top right corner. 
 Foul by Stephen McKenna (Queen of the South). 
 Haris Vuckic (Rangers) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Attempt saved. Ian McShane (Queen of the South) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Gavin Reilly (Queen of the South) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Marius Zaliukas (Rangers). 
 Attempt saved. Derek Lyle (Queen of the South) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom right corner. 
 Attempt saved. Andy Murdoch (Rangers) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. 
 Foul by Chris Higgins (Queen of the South). 
 Haris Vuckic (Rangers) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Derek Lyle (Queen of the South). 
 Darren McGregor (Rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
  Booking  Stephen McKenna (Queen of the South) is shown the yellow card. 
 Foul by Stephen McKenna (Queen of the South). 
 Haris Vuckic (Rangers) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Mark Durnan (Queen of the South). 
 Kenny Miller (Rangers) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Attempt missed. Mark Durnan (Queen of the South) right footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the right. 
 Attempt missed. Mark Durnan (Queen of the South) header from the right side of the six yard box is too high following a corner. 
 Corner, Queen of the South. Conceded by Marius Zaliukas. 
 Steven Smith (Rangers) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Lewis Kidd (Queen of the South). 
 Foul by Derek Lyle (Queen of the South). 
 Lee Wallace (Rangers) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Attempt saved. Dean Shiels (Rangers) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom right corner. 
 Foul by Stephen McKenna (Queen of the South). 
 Dean Shiels (Rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt missed. Haris Vuckic (Rangers) left footed shot from the left side of the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Attempt saved. Derek Lyle (Queen of the South) header from more than 35 yards is saved in the bottom right corner. 
 Derek Lyle (Queen of the South) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Lee Wallace (Rangers). 
   First Half begins. 
 Lineups are announced and players are warming up. 
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
 Rangers boss Stuart McCall hopes to have an unchanged squad when his team travel to Dumfries to take on Queen of the South on Saturday. 
 The Ibrox men have lost on their last two visits but are aiming to have better luck in their Premiership play-off quarter-final first leg. 
 Seb Faure, Jon Daly, Kevin Mbabu, Remie Streete, Gael Bigirimana and Shane Ferguson are all unavailable for Rangers. 
 Queens team news to follow. 
  Queen of the South manager James Fowler:  &quot;We don't fear anybody and I think we have shown that throughout the season. 
 &quot;Even though Hearts won the four games against us we competed well against them and obviously we have had good results against Hibs and Rangers as well. 
 &quot;We have shown that we can hurt Rangers, so we are just looking for the same again really. 
 &quot;We know it is going to be tough. It is a two-legged tie and it is important that we give ourselves a chance going into the second leg. 
 &quot;The spirit and attitude of the players has been key this season. 
 &quot;Rangers are still a massive club, they still have international players in their squad. 
 &quot;We know it is going to be a big ask over the two legs but we have players who can trouble them.&quot; 
  Rangers defender Richard Foster:  &quot;These next two games are right up there with the biggest games I've ever played in terms of importance. 
 &quot;It's massive for us. We know the consequences if we don't get through this tie and go on to promotion. 
 &quot;So it's right up there with the most important I've played in. That brings with it its own nervousness but also its own excitement. 
 &quot;I've played in a few big games during my first spell at the club. We had to beat Kilmarnock on the final day of the season to win the title the last time I was at the club but I was on the bench that game and never played. 
 &quot;So the biggest I've tasted was probably the goalless Old Firm game a few weeks before where Allan McGregor saved that Georgios Samaras penalty. 
 &quot;That was the most important game of that season - looking back you can see how massive a save was for us that year going for the title. 
 &quot;The crowd won't be that big on Saturday but that's the league that we are in. Queen of the South did well to get into the play-offs. It doesn't matter how big the stadium is, the level of importance is very high. 
 &quot;I don't think the fans would accept us going down there and playing for a 0-0. That's very hard to do anyway. Inevitably you lose a goal then have to change your whole mindset. 
 &quot;We'll be looking to win the game. Obviously we want to keep it tight but I think we are a better team when we are on the front foot.&quot; 
