SCOTTISH curling legend Eve Muirhead joined a nine-year-old cancer survivor and his twin brother to rally a pink army of more than 10,000 women as they set off the ScottishPower High 5 Wave at Cancer Research UK’s Race for Life in Glasgow today. (May 10).
Brave cancer survivor Danny Flanigan and his brother Joe joined Eve on stage and powered-up the crowd by leading them in the High 5 Wave, which asks people to ‘donate’ their positive energy to the fight against cancer.
The aim is to generate 60,000 High 5s - either at Race for Life events this summer or online - which ScottishPower will convert into a &pound;35,000 donation to Cancer Research UK.
Eve said: “I lost my gran to cancer so I want to do everything I can to fight back against this devastating disease. That’s why I’m thrilled to be supporting ScottishPower and Cancer Research UK and to have witnessed Race for Life’s incredible pink army in action.
 


“Meeting brave Danny and his wonderful brother Joe has really highlighted to me the amazing achievement of Glasgow’s ladies today in raising vital funds to help families like the Flanigans spend more precious moments together.

“It was so inspiring to see thousands of women taking part in ScottishPower’s High 5 Wave, all united in their determination to help beat cancer sooner. I hope many more will be moved to back the campaign and sign up for Race for Life events taking place across Scotland this summer.”

Danny and Joe, of Coatbridge, North Lanarkshire, were guests of honour at Glasgow Green, the first of 13 Race for Life events taking place around Scotland until July.

Danny, a primary five pupil at St Bernard's primary school, was given the all-clear just two months ago after being diagnosed last November with Burkitts Lymphoma, a rare and particularly aggressive type of cancer affecting the lymphatic system.
Store worker mum Maria, 35, and primary teacher dad Colin, 36, say Danny's good response to treatment is everything they'd hoped and prayed for.
Maria said: “We're just so thankful to see our boy getting back to his old self. He's been through so much, but he's handled it all really well.
“We’d like to say a huge thank you to all the ladies taking part in Race for Life because, it’s thanks to their efforts that Cancer Research UK scientists can continue in their work to bring forward the day when all cancers are cured.”
Joining Danny and Joe as guest of honour was Paula Dolan of East Kilbride who took part in Race for Life in memory of her daughter Lucy who died aged just four after being diagnosed with an aggressive type of cancer.
Taking part in her fifth Race for Life, Paula was determined to show cancer that hell hath no fury like a woman in pink.
The 31-year-old sounded an air horn to start the 5k event, before joining with her own team of runners and heading round the course.
Paula said: “I take part in Race for Life because I’m determined to help others by raising money so Cancer Research UK can help more people survive.”
Glasgow is home to a thriving community of world-class cancer scientists and doctors, who are working to reduce the devastating impact of this disease, not only locally, but around the world.

Last year Cancer Research UK invested over &pound;22 million supporting the work of outstanding scientists, doctors and nurses in the area. For example, an exciting programme of work has been established at the Cancer Research UK Beatson Institute to look for ways to tailor treatment for pancreatic cancer.


ScottishPower is the official energy sponsor of Cancer Research UK’s Race for Life and since 2012 has raised more than &pound;6 million over three years as part of a wider partnership with the charity. The energy provider has just renewed the partnership for a further three years.
Last year, Glasgow’s Race for Life raised an incredible &pound;930,000. Organisers hope that this year’s event will raise even more for life saving research.
Simon Burley, Race for Life event manager for Glasgow, said: “One in two people in the UK will be diagnosed with cancer at some point in their lives and sadly, most of us know someone whose life has been touched by the disease. But thanks to Glasgow Race for Life’s pink army, and to those who support them, more people are surviving than ever before.”
Women who lace up their trainers for Race for Life are allowing Cancer Research UK’s doctors, nurses and scientists to advance research which is helping to save the lives of more people affected by cancer in Scotland and across the UK.

There is still time to enter Race for Life events across Scotland at raceforlife.org or by calling 0300 123 0770.
To take part in the High 5 Wave campaign, please visit scottishpower-high5.co.uk to upload a High 5 video or photo and nominate friends to do the same.

