McGhee’s Bakery is on a roll after being named Scottish Baker of the Year.
The family firm, based in Glasgow, were honoured in the city on Saturday night.
As well as taking the overall gong, the 80-year-old company won the best wholesale baker award, the best in Scotland for their morning roll and a bronze award for their potato scone.
But it was back to work on Sunday morning – managing director Gordon McGhee starts at 6am, while his brother Ian, the production director, was in at 5am.
Gordon said: “It’s a great honour to be picked as the best bakers in Scotland. It’s overwhelming. It’s recognition for the company and for all of the staff.
“They are the reason we got here, they are team players.”
McGhee’s supply rolls, potato scones, yum-yums and &shy;doughnuts to corner shops, cafeterias and canteens across the central belt.
Customers nominated their favourite products, which went forward to a nationwide judging day in Dunfermline last month.
Gordon, 56, said: “We were delighted to win the best roll in Scotland,
“It’s our business, our signature product.” The company make two million of them every week.
Gordon added: “Rolls are a very regional product.”
The crispy roll – favoured by Glaswegians – accounts for 35 per cent of production.
These are hard to get right and Gordon says that McGhee’s &shy;willingness to allow the dough enough time to ferment properly is what builds the flavours.
Sixty per cent of the company’s rolls are the soft variety, popular in Ayrshire.These should be quite floury but not as floury as the ones destined for Dundee, which should be white all over.
To deliver the morning staple, McGhee’s factory in Port Dundas has had &pound;18million of investment over the past 10 years.
It is, Gordon said, the most modern bakery in &shy;Scotland – if not the UK.
The company employ 270 people. The brothers share management duties with their cousin Stuart, the sales director. They are the third &shy;generation to knead dough for a living and their sons and &shy;daughters will, they hope, soon make it four.
While rolls and tottie scones form the core of their business, tastes are changing.
Gordon added: “Krispy Kreme have raised awarenes of &shy;doughnuts.
“So we’ve improved our doughnut offering to match what Krispy Kreme do.
“Competition keeps everyone sharp and moving forward.”
And hipsters selling artisan loaves to urban food bloggers are welcome too.
“These small enterprises are great for our industry. They raise awareness and raise the bar.”
Now McGhee’s hope to see the award making an impact.
Gordon said: “We can shout that we are the best baker in Scotland and our customers can shout that they are selling the best baked goods in Scotland.
“For those who are not existing customers, we can let them taste something better.”
McGhee’s already exports caramel shortcake to the US and are looking to expand into France, Germany and Hungary.
These products will now all be tagged with the best baker accolade.
 Try your hand at our news quiz 

