A MAN has been stabbed in a &quot;completely random&quot; attack on a night out with friends.
The 27-year-old victim is in a stable condition in hospital after being approached by a group and assaulted in the Gorbals area of Glasgow as he walked along a street.
Police are appealing for information about the attack, which appears to have had no clear motive.
The incident happened shortly after midnight, when the victim and three friends left a local pub and were walking along Gorbals Street.
They were approached by two young men and two young women and a row ensued between one of the men and the 27-year-old.
It resulted in him being attacked and receiving a stab wound, police said.
The injured man was taken to the city's Victoria Infirmary, where his condition is said to be stable.
Following the attack, the group of young people continued to head up Gorbals Street in the direction of the Brazenhead bar.
The suspect is described as being white, in his late teens or early 20s. He had a local accent and was wearing a dark jacket.
The other man in the group is white, of a similar age, with a thin build and wearing dark clothes.
The women were also white and in their late teens to early 20s. One of them had a medium build and was wearing large glasses. The other had a thin build.
Officers have been carrying out door-to-door enquiries in the area and are looking at CCTV images as part of the inquiry.
Detective Constable Mark Hendry said: &quot;This attack is completely random, there was some sort of altercation prior to the attack and we are in the process of establishing the exact circumstances around that. However, a 27-year-old man has been seriously assaulted with no clear motive when on a night out with friends and it's imperative we trace those responsible.
&quot;This is a busy thoroughfare with many people either on foot or in cars or taxis - if you think you saw anything or have any knowledge of the crime or the suspects which could assist our investigation, please do get in touch.&quot;
Anyone with information is asked to contact Gorbals police office on the non-emergency number, 101.

