A survivor of the hit and run that killed schoolgirl Sophie Brannan has told how he is haunted by the tragedy.
Joe Lloyd was with the 11-year-old and his niece Chelsea Somerville when serial offender Christopher Hannah’s car mounted the pavement and smashed into them.
Heroin addict Hannah, who has a string of convictions, was jailed for 12 years after he admitted killing the youngster.
Speaking for the first time, Joe revealed how he struggles to come to terms with Sophie’s death and said he feels heartbroken for her family.
Reliving the tragedy, the 36-year-old said it’s a miracle anyone survived.
He said: “Chelsea was at one side of me and Sophie was at the other.
“I remember hearing a bang, trying to shove Chelsea away and seeing flashing lights.
“The next thing I knew, I woke up on the road and saw the girls on the hill. I hadn’t even seen the car coming towards us.
“I remember screaming, ‘How are the weans, how are the weans?’, but nobody would tell me. I knew I was breathing but they just looked lifeless. There was no movement from either of them and I feared the worst.”
The girls were taken to the Royal Hospital for Sick Children in Yorkhill, Glasgow, in ambulances without Joe knowing if they were dead or alive.
 

Sophie was found to have swelling to her brain, several broken bones and remained in intensive care overnight.
The youngster was pronounced dead the morning after the accident, which happened in the city’s Maryhill on November 14.
Chelsea, 10, suffered a serious leg break, which will require long-term physiotherapy.
After hitting them in Sandbank Street, Hannah smashed into a tenement building, ripped off a gas pipe, then skidded along the pavement and on to the road.
He sped off before abandoning the vehicle in a nearby street and wasn’t caught by police for two days.
Hannah later admitted to pals he had been driving like a “madman”.
Joe revealed how he agreed to let the two pals accompany him on a trip to the bookies so they could walk Chelsea’s puppy, Caeser, which survived.
The best friends had been playing together and knew Joe would buy them sweets at the shop on the way.
 He added: “It was all so normal until that moment. We were on the pavement after crossing into  Sandbank Street. 
“Sophie was on the inside because she asked to have a shot of walking Caeser. Chelsea and I were talking about everyday things.
“It was so quick. I must’ve been on the car’s bonnet and bounced off at the foot of the hill on to Maryhill Road.
“When I came to, I just remember this woman kept asking me if I was OK. All the traffic had stopped so I knew I’d been hit by a car.
“I heard my brother James, Chelsea’s dad, screaming.
“He had rung my mobile when he looked out the window and seen all the activity.
“A paramedic answered and told him a car had hit us and to get down as quickly as he could.”
 

Joe was rushed to hospital, where he had surgery on his shoulder. He says he woke up to find both his parents by his side – the first time he’d seen the pair of them in the same room.
He added: “It’s the first time in my whole life I’ve ever seen them together, so I knew it was bad news.
“My dad told me I had been in a hit and run and that Sophie had died. I can’t remember how long it took me to stop crying.
“I was in a pretty bad way and my collarbone was smashed and has been left sticking out of my chest.
“The doctors say there’s nothing they can do about it and I’m in constant pain.
“My right shoulder blade was smashed to pieces and I had 38 staples put in with two metal plates and six bolts.
“I also had two chipped bones in my left ankle and five different breaks in my right foot.”
But as well as the devastating physical injuries, the accident has left Joe with mental scars he fears may never heal.
He said: “I’m not sleeping and I’ve lost weight.
“I just can’t sleep without seeing flashing lights and images of wee Sophie. When I do sleep, the nightmares are unbelievable and I wake up soaked in sweat.
“It tortures me. I just think, ‘What if I hadn’t taken them to the shops?’
“I can’t understand why I’m still here and that wee lassie isn’t.
“Sophie didn’t even get the chance to live her life. It was worse last week with Hannah going to court for sentencing.”
Joe was still on crutches and had plaster casts on his legs but was determined to go to Sophie’s funeral to pay his respects.
He said: “Sophie was Chelsea’s best friend, she was always smiling.
“She always had her Celtic top on, she loved them. She was just a brilliant wee lassie.”
At the High Court in Livingston last week, Judge Lord Bannatyne told father-of-three Hannah that Sophie’s family would never get over her death. Her family and friends were in court – many of them wearing pink T-shirts bearing the words “Soph” and “Justice”.
Witnesses claimed 33-year-old Hannah – who had 14 previous convictions – was “under the influence of some substance” at the time of the accident.
 

Chelsea is still recovering from her own serious injuries and had to use a wheelchair. In court, the judge referred to her “considerable ongoing emotional difficulties”.
Joe added: “Chelsea and I have never spoken about what happened that night.
“Hopefully one day, we can sit and talk, even with a counsellor but we’ll see when Chelsea’s ready for that.
“I’m on a waiting list to start some sort of counselling.
“It’s something I never thought I would need.
“I know I need it now. I have to learn to deal with it but I’ll never forget that night or wee Sophie.”
