A DOG who was hit by a train going 40 mph before bouncing 12ft in the air has made a miracle recovery.
Archie, who lives at the Corrour Station made famous by the movie Trainspotting, was feasting on a deer carcass near the tracks on April 25 when he was struck.
Engrossed in his meal, the German Wirehaired Pointer failed to notice the Glasgow to Mallaig sprinter heading his way.
Remarkably, the two-year-old survived and walked away with a broken diaphragm and internal bleeding.
Back home from a week long stay at the Glasgow Vet School, owners Lizzie MacKenzie and Ollie Bennett are relieved their loveable pooch is on the mend.
Ollie, 25, said: “Archie is now back on Corrour and he’s obviously a bit sore but he’s looking relatively perky.
“I was speaking to the train driver and apparently Archie fully bounced off the train, 12ft in the air and rolled down the embankment.
“It was quite a hard hit. We’ve been told that all the vets in the country are talking about this miracle dog who was hit by a train and survived.
“Archie’s recently taught himself to open the door and used this new trick to let himself out of the house around the time of the last train of the day.
“He does suffer from selective hearing at times and wouldn’t come back inside.
“We can only presume he was tucking into a deer carcass on the tracks and didn’t think to move when he saw the bright lights of the Glasgow - Mallaig sprinter heading his way.”
Ollie explained that the train had left the station, which is located on Rannoch Moor, and was around a mile away and almost at full speed when it hit Archie.
He added: “He had some wounds on his ribs and his right hand side lung was damaged but most of his injuries actually came from rolling down the embankment.
“He’s really quite lucky because if he had bounced the other way on to the tracks, it would have been a very different story.
“He’s a lucky boy but he bloody better stay away from the tracks!”
Thankfully the much-loved dog has since made a full recovery and returned home on May 5.

