 No matter how much of a streetwise international traveller I think I am, there’s nothing like a trip to London to prove you can’t take Glasgow out of the girl. 
I’ve been sent to London for work purposes on many occasions and I do enjoy the city. It’s vibrant and exciting but I wouldn’t want to live there. There are just so many people all of the time.
My latest trip was not for work, it was for two nights in a fancy hotel.
 Now before you think I’ve gone all lah-di-dah on you (please remember a trip to Rothesay on the Waverley is still my favourite day out EVER), we won it in a charity raffle. 
The Thistle hotel in Marble Arch was our destination and lovely it was too. We went midweek (&pound;34 flights!), which meant it was full of stressed-out business people engrossed in their laptops at breakfast glowering at me with my tourist map strewn over the table and vocalising my big dilemma: “Boat trip or cocktails in Covent Garden?”
As it was my other half’s 40th birthday, I’d booked some treats. Lunch in Aqua, a fancy restaurant up the Shard, was his first surprise (in retrospect I should have looked at the online menu).
Once we convinced the maitre d’ we had a booking, they sat us at the back, probably to avoid spoiling other diners’ view.
To say my partner has simple culinary tastes is an understatement. Serve him plain chicken, doner kebab or a steak (cremated) and he’s happy, anything else is a no-go.

In all three courses of the lunch menu there was NOTHING he could eat and 31 floors up is a long way to go for a basket of bread and butter. At least the view was spectacular and I enjoyed mine.
That night he was starving. Next to our hotel was a McDonald’s. One Big Mac, a McChicken sandwich and a cheeseburger in the brown bag later, we shoved it in his rucksack before sneaking it back to our room for a midnight feast.
Nothing makes you feel scummier than smuggling in junk food to a posh hotel to find they have left two slices of posh chocolate mousse plated on a large silver service tray in the room with Happy Birthday beautifully scrolled in dark chocolate. Thank goodness we never bought a McFlurry.
The next day was my final surprise, tickets to the musical The Book of Mormon. At the box office, the lady couldn’t find my tickets. As she examined my printed voucher, she discovered they were booked for the previous Tuesday.
I argued this was impossible and searched the emails on my phone for my confirmation. It proved she was correct and I was a numpty.
“Im sorry, it’s not downloading,” I fibbed, trying to save the day. We must have looked so dejected she gave us two hand backs for the front of the stalls, three times the price of my original, outdated tickets. There are good people out there.
We always play ‘spot the famous person’ in London. One point per celebrity, two points if you get a photo.
Sipping Prosecco with chic London-based pals in Covent Garden, I had to laugh as the other half stood up pointing and shouted ‘RUSS ABBOT’ across the entire courtyard to claim his point.
Incidentally, the final score was 3-1. He got Russ, Denise Lewis and Sophie Raworth from BBC news, I got Steve Cram. Great fun but we’re clearly not cool Britannia enough for the smoke...

