THE search is on for Scotland’s best bar as we launch this year’s Sunday Mail Pub of the Year competition.
Now in its 20th year, the annual award raises a glass to the country’s favourite pub.
Landlady Claire Nicoll, of The Keys in St Andrews, thought the bar she ran was a hidden gem – until it was crowned last year’s Sunday Mail Pub of the Year at the DRAM Licensed Trade Awards.
As we launch the search for this year’s winner, Claire, 40, admitswinning the prestigious award still feels like a dream.
She said: “Winning this award was amazing – and we have seen a big rise in the number of new customers coming in.
“I always thought we were a hidden gem so to get such public recognition was really special.”
Susan Young, editor of DRAM magazine, which supports the newly named Scottish Bar and Pub Awards, said: “A good bar is somewhere that you are guaranteed to get a warm welcome from great staff, the offer of tasty pub grub and just be in a comfortable environment where you can enjoy good company.
“Winning this competition helps the winners’ business tremendously.
“People always say they know where the best pub in Scotland is – this is their chance to vote for it.”
The Anchor Hotel
Dalbeattie, Kirkcudbrightshire
The defining pub of the “Scottish Riviera” – always loads of folk inside and out. Overlooks the tranquil cove and the sunset.
Joseph Pearce/Victoria/ Boda / Sofi’s
Leith, Edinburgh
Four separate but highly individual bars. Defunct pubs transformed into funky pubs. Fresh, laid back, mix ‘n’ max – scrabble, book clubs, running clubs. Putting style into lifestyle.
The Old Bridge Inn
 

Aviemore, Inverness-shire
Just off the road from Aviemore to Coylumbridge, the skiing, Rothiemurchus, lochs and woods – this welcoming hosteling is a centre for the outdoor, the local and the music community. Great food.
The Clachaig Inn
 

Glencoe, Argyll
The climbers’ and walkers’ pub and everyone who loves the great outdoors, deep in the glen. The backdoor bar for muddy boots and the craic, the lounge for food and fuel. It is the antithesis of the Scottish pub for tourists.
The Old Forge
 

Inverie, Mallaig, Inverness-shire
A faraway pub on a wilderness peninsular. You could walk the 20 miles in but usually you go by boat from Mallaig to this haven of hospitality. The beating heart of the Knoydart community, as buzzing as anywhere on the mainland.
The Glenelg Inn
 

Kyle of Lochalsh, Ross-shire
At the end of the spectacular hairpin road over the hill from Shiel Bridge, a pub first where you need it with a good restaurant and rooms to stay. The Glenelg Inn has always been the heart of the glen. You can even drink in the view from the garden.
The Horseshoe Bar
 

Drury Street, Glasgow
A mighty fine pub since the 19th century. Famous for its longest island bar in Britain, for its cheap and cheerful lunch and high tea and karaoke upstairs. As relevant and rocking as it ever was – a timeless treasure.
The Mishnish
 

Tobermory, Isle of Mull
The classic island pub and for many the real Tobermory, the Mish has been in the same family for generations, though is now owned by a different branch of The Macleods. A nooks and crannies kind of bar: live music, DJs and pub grub by the fire.
Oran Mor
 

Byre’s Road, Glasgow
No ordinary pub – this, of course, a destination, a trailblazer, a venue that Glasgow and Scotland can be proud of. A cultural hub. It needs no endorsement from me.
Ship Inn
The Toft, Elie
This seashore pub is undergoing a transformation which will make it ever more a must-go in the East Neuk of Fife, especially for food. The Beach bar, with its terrace overlooking the Elie strand, and a brilliant BBQ has just opened for the summer. Alfresco pubbery doesn’t get better than this.
