 RAB C NESBITT star Gregor Fisher has revealed the incredible mystery over his adoption – and how the man he always thought was his dad was NOT his biological father. 
 The 61-year old actor – whose mother died of heart failure when he was just three – was adopted first by the Fisher family before being “handed over” to Cis and John Leckie. 
He discovered unknown details of the adoptions as he researched his family tree for a memoir he has been writing.
 Fisher – who grew up in Neilston, near Glasgow – explained: “My early life was a mystery to me. There have been bits of my life revealed over the years but not much more than the fact that I was an adopted boy. 
 

“However, I’ve discovered recently my adoption itself is something of a mystery, a bit of a ball of wool that’s become entangled.
“I got to the end of the ball of wool and there are still unanswered questions.”
Fisher, best known for playing working class Govan philosopher Nesbitt, added: “I wasn’t adopted twice. I was adopted once and then handed over.
“And recently I discovered my biological father, or the man whom I thought was my father, was not my real father at all. It was simply assumed.

“People I grew up with would look at this man and then me and say, ‘You cannae deny that yin’. I remember I went to drama school and walked with a turned in foot, as did this particular man.
“I thought, ‘There’s no question he’s my father’. But it was all wrong, even though we looked similar.” At first, he was unsure about going back in time to discover the truth about his own parents and his ancestors.
 

But Gregor plans to reveal all in a new book about his life. He said: “My father, I’ve discovered, was a much older man. He was in his 60s when I was born and, when my mother died, social services took us (Gregor and his sisters).”
Gregor also discovered his long-lost brother, a BBC journalist, but is saving the details for the book.
“Years ago in the BBC canteen in Edinburgh, I sat a few feet away from him, never knowing he was my brother,” Gregor added.
 Try your hand at our showbiz quiz 

