ANY man walking through Glasgow city centre yesterday morning must have thought he’d woken up in the middle of a mass hen party.
It was a sea of pink. There were tutus, feather boas and lots of giggling and screeching.
In fact, it looked like a crowd on their way to a Take That gig.
But this was no ordinary girls day out, this was the biggest Race for Life in Scotland, with 10,000 women and children taking to the streets in one big public show of defiance against cancer.
Some were survivors of the disease.
Others, like me, had lost loved ones or seen friends and family members successfully treated.
There were women of all ages, shapes and sizes. I even saw a dog with a race number crossing the finish line.
My preparation for the run wasn’t exactly text book.
I don’t think Paula Radcliffe would approve of me disco dancing until 2am, skipping a healthy breakfast for another half hour in bed and a complete lack of warm up to avoid the pouring rain.
In fact when my alarm went off at 7.30am I was tempted to turn over and go back to sleep.
Joining my fellow runners at the start line though I was glad I hadn’t.
Yes it was pouring with rain, it was cold and the wind in your face as you ran down Buchanan Street was cruel in the extreme. Spring? What a laugh.
I think I must have sloshed through every puddle on the course. My feet were still freezing hours after I got home and had wrapped them up in my warmest socks.
It was all worth it though when I remembered that my entry fee and the thousands of pounds raised by all those women will help make a real difference to people’s lives.
We’ve heard a lot of politicians make endless promises recently, many of them vowing to fix the health service.
Yesterday 10,000 people gave up their own time, put on their trainers, braved horrible conditions and did their bit to improve the lives of people with cancer.
Yes it was a bit girly, very pink and a bit silly at times but it was also honest, in some cases brave and for most of us it was lots of fun.
Politicians talk the talk but yesterday us girls actually got out there and did something about it.
I know who’d get my vote.

