THE streets may not be paved with gold but there is a sparkle to London that always pulls you back.
 I wouldn’t want to live there as my work commute is only four minutes not two hours but for a girly weekend away , there is nowhere like it. 
 School friend Vivien and I jumped on the train from Glasgow and, five hours later, were walking past Kevin Spacey’s face on a poster at the Old Vic, a few steps from our hotel – the Hilton at Waterloo. 
It is ideally located near the South Bank arts centre and a few minutes’ walk from the London Eye, the Houses of Parliament, the Tate and, of course, the Old Vic.
The south bank of the river heaves at night and is full of restaurants and bars.
We dined at Spanish tapas restaurant Mar I Terram, on Gambia Street. It is close to all the sights but hidden enough to prevent tourist overload.
We then went in search of a buzz of a different kind, a venue close to the city, lots of green space and which has its own beehives – the Lancaster Hotel on the edge of Hyde Park.
It has unparalleled views over the park and is seconds away from the newly restored Italian gardens of fountains and pools which provide respite from a day in the whirlwind of the city.
If you bring the kids, the hotel do a special two-room deal for the school holidays – the Paddington Bear package.
The Lancaster is one Tube stop away from Bond Street and two from Oxford Circus. In the opposite direction is Notting Hill Gate, where we headed for a wander through the wonderful Portobello Market.
It is laden with tourist tat but there are also some fabulous vintage shops and second-hand stores.
There are bargains to be found and I picked up a pristine French Connection coat for &pound;50.
That night we headed back to the hotel for food at the Nipa Thai, where the all-female kitchen team produced some of the best lobster I’ve tasted south of the Border.
No girls’ weekend would be complete without cocktails so we headed to the Nightjar in Shoreditch, less cocktail bar more speakeasy. Downstairs, behind an unmarked door, is a jazz-infused haven, where we watched the artistry of some of the best cocktail makers in London.
On the Sunday, we headed to Covent Garden – a tourist mecca but still laden with charm.
We had succulent beef rump, Yorkshire pudding, roast potatoes and buttered trimmings at Tredwell’s – the latest trendy restaurant from celebrity chef Marcus Wareing.
To ensure full relaxation mode for our journey back home, we checked in to the K West Hotel and Spa in Shepherd’s Bush.
This is a sister hotel to the Lancaster but they don’t look or feel related.
K West is modern and laid-back, and home to London’s only Snow Paradise, which is based on the Finnish idea of getting the circulation going by moving from extreme heat to Arctic cold.
Just like a summer’s day in Scotland really.

