AN OPERATIC work commissioned for Glasgow’s Mitchell Library will be in the running for Britain’s biggest visual art prize when it visits the city this year.
Canadian artist Janice Kerbel has been shortlisted for the Turner Prize for her work, which took the form of nine songs for six voices.
A new adventure playground commissioned for one Glasgow’s hosting of the Commonwealth Games has also helped win a nomination for a collective of artists, architects and designers.
However Scottish artists have missed out on the shortlist for this year’s prize, despite an incredible run of nominees in recent years, with all four contenders being based in London.
Glasgow, which has boasted a host of contenders and winners over the last two decades, will be hosting the Turner Prize show for the first time at the Tramway arts centre between October and January under organiser Tate Britain’s policy of taking it on the road every other year.
Kerbel’s performance piece, commissioned by Glasgow’s Common Guild arts organisation for the library’s Jeffrey Room, is said to chronicle a cycle of catastrophic events endured by “Doug.” A fictional character the artist has created, she describes him as “an innocent fool and part hapless fall guy.” 
London-based arts collective Assemble drew inspiration from “post-war junk playgrounds” to design a permanent new facility for the Dalmarnock area, which had no parks, playgrounds or children’s facilities.
The collective - who use art, design and architecture to create projects with local communities - are also nominated for their work to help transform derelict terraced houses in Granby Four Streets, in Liverpool, which were threatened with demolition. Residents reclaimed and replanted their streets, painted the empty houses, organised a monthly market and formed their own community land trust.
Bonnie Camplin is in the running for a “study room,” entitled The Military Industrial Complex, which explores physics, philosophy, psychology, witchcraft, quantum theory and warfare.
Nicole Wermers’ exhibition “Infrastruckur” deployed luxury goods and designer furniture to tackle themes of class, consumption, lifestyle and control.
• The 2015 Turner Prize exhibition opens at the Tramway on 1 October.
