 THE average cost of a wedding in Britain is now an eye-watering &pound;21,000. 
As a result, many newlyweds start married life up to their necks in debt – but it doesn’t have to be that way.
One of the biggest outlays is the dress. Brides want to look their best and there are now numerous cost-effective options available.
 Debenhams have launched a service in key flagship stores, including Glasgow’s Argyle Street, that takes the stress out of wedding dress shopping. Brides can find their perfect gown with help from specially trained personal shoppers and the store have also introduced 10 new exclusive styles, with prices ranging from &pound;120 to &pound;280. 
 Ann's Verdict: 
 FREELANCE writer and fashion stylist Ann Russell, 28, from Edinburgh , runs fashion blog frocktrade.com. 
 “I got engaged in August 2013 and have been thinking about my wedding dress since I was a little girl. When it came to  the time I had to choose one, it was quite full-on for me because I work in the fashion industry and had so much choice. 
“I started by looking at magazines and blogs then went looking for dresses. I can’t say what I’ve chosen but what I had in my head wasn’t what I ended up with.
 “I’m quite tall and slim but have curves so had to factor that in. I love the fishtail shape for my figure. It’s nice to see the variety of dresses Debenhams have at affordable prices. A lot of them rival what I saw in designer boutiques  – there is detail and embellishment for not a lot of money. 
“It makes the bridal market less overwhelming for a lot of people who might get engaged and think they’re going to have to save up for ages to be able to afford to buy a nice dress.
“This line means you don’t have to make a massive financial investment.”
 

 Laura's Verdict: 
LAURA STOBIE, 28, is a business manager from Ayr. She is marrying David Coughtrie next April:
“I’ve only just starting to think about dresses and want something quite tight at the top and nipped in at the waist.
“I’m a curvy size 12, so it’s hard to find a dress that fits properly. I’m smaller at the top than I am on the bottom half.
“I’ve been looking in magazines and shops and the Debenhams dresses are a fraction of the price and look just as good as some of the ones in the magazines. It’s great to have such a choice at this price range.
“Some people might not like the idea of getting a wedding dress from a department store but you wouldn’t know by looking at them – and you don’t have to tell anyone where it’s from.”
 

 Lesley's Verdict: 
LESLEY ALLAN, 26, from East Kilbride, works for South Lanarkshire Council and is to marry Stephen Doyle.
“I’ve been engaged to Stephen for six years so have had plenty of time to think about my wedding dress.
“For the first two years, I spent a lot of time looking at dresses and trying them on. Then I had two children, so we kept putting the wedding off.
“I always thought I’d go for a big, &shy;princess dress but now I’ve tried on the fishtail shape, I’m changing my mind.
“I’m quite petite and I love how the shorter dress looks but I’ll go for a longer style in the end.
“I’m impressed by what you can get at Debenhams. I thought I’d need to spend about &pound;800 to get something I liked but I could get something from a top designer at a reasonable price.”
 


