A 35-year-old man has gone on trial accused of murdering Glasgow gangland figure Kevin &quot;Gerbil&quot; Carroll.
William Paterson is alleged to have repeatedly shot and killed 29-year-old Mr Carroll outside Asda, in the city's Robroyston area, on 13 January 2010.
He is also accused of fleeing to Spain 10 days later &quot;to avoid arrest, prosecution and conviction&quot;.
Mr Paterson denies all the charges against him and has lodged two special defences of alibi and incrimination.
The trial is taking place at the High Court in Glasgow.
An excerpt from a telephone call made by Mr Paterson to his girlfriend Sarah Maguire from prison in October last year was played to the court.
In it he was heard telling her that he had been served with his indictment and that there were 350 witnesses on the list, including her father.
Giving evidence to the jury, Miss Maguire's father Kevin Maguire, 70, told the court that Mr Paterson was in a relationship with his daughter and before going to Spain in January 2010 sometimes stayed at their house.
Det Sgt Grant Durie, who searched the house where Miss Maguire lived with her father in Cumbernauld, also gave evidence.
He told the court he was the crime scene manager and that during the search a bulletproof vest was found under the bed in Miss Maguire's room.
Advocate depute Iain McSporran asked if it was if it was &quot;unusual&quot; to find it and he said it was.
The prosecutor asked how many times he had previously come across a bulletproof vest during searches and he replied: &quot;That was the first time, sir.&quot;
The officer also told the court that Kevin Carroll had the nickname &quot;Gerbil&quot;.
He confirmed that a man called Ross Monaghan had been arrested and charged with Mr Carroll's murder.
It is claimed - while masked and acting with others - Mr Paterson repeatedly discharged loaded handguns at 29-year-old Mr Carroll shooting him on the head and body.
The 35-year-old is also accused of attempting to defeat the ends of justice.
The indictment claims that on 23 January 2010 he boarded a flight from Glasgow to Malaga &quot;to avoid arrest, prosecution and conviction&quot;.
Mt Paterson further faces a number of firearms charges as well as another accusation of attempting to defeat the ends of justice.
He is also said to have been involved in the reset of a car or an alternative accusation of being in the vehicle knowing it had been taken without consent.
Mr Paterson denies all the charges and has incriminated six other people, including Ross Monaghan, and lodged a special defence of alibi claiming he was at his girlfriend's house in Cumbernauld on the day of the murder.
The trial before judge Lord Armstrong continues.
