MEET Scotland’s brightest stars – the inspirational finalists of the Daily Record Our Heroes awards 2015.
 The remarkable men, women and children from every walk of life have been recognised for their courage, hard work and dedication, and are guests of honour at the most uplifting night of the year at Glasgow’s Thistle Hotel on Friday evening. 
 The awards, which are sponsored by Lidl, will bring together VIPs from the worlds of sport, entertainment and politics gather to honour &shy;ordinary Scots who make an  extraordinary difference to the lives of others. 
 Hosted by comedian and BBC Scotland radio presenter Fred MacAulay, the Our Heroes awards will include entertainment from former X Factor singers Rebecca Ferguson and Nicholas McDonald. 
 But these Scots are just the start – check out tomorrow’s Daily Record to read more amazing stories about the nominees. 
Lucy Lintott, from Moray
THE youngest motor neurone disease sufferer in Scotland and was only 19 when she was given the diagnosis.
The cruel illness is terminal and incurable, and is already affecting her speech and movement. But she refuses to let it beat her and is completing a bucket list of 45 dreams.
Lucy, now 20, is trying to raise &pound;100,000 to improve awareness of MND.
Gordon Aikman, from Edinburgh
MOTOR neurone disease sufferer Gordon, 30, is determined to make themost of his life.
 

He was diagnosed with an aggressive form of MND and will soon lose his ability to walk, eat and breathe.
But Gordon has found hope in his situation and has focused his energieson raising money to help find a cure.
Paul Gilmour from Saltcoats, Ayrshire
After complaining of feeling unwell one day, Paul’s son Daniel was rushed to hospital, where he was diagnosed with neuroblastoma – one of the most aggressive forms of childhood cancers.
 

After chemotherapy, radiotherapy, surgery and battling the illness for more than a year, Daniel passed away, aged just four, in April 2013.
Paul and his wife Fiona have raised more than &pound;30,000 for North Ayrshire Cancer Care and CLIC Sergeant. Along with friends Derek Cobb, Brian Lennon and Derek Pettigrew, he cycled 1300km along the Rhine in a 10-day challenge.
Karen McLachlan, from Glasgow
HAVING suffered a massive heart attack minutes after returning home from work one day, Karen owes her life to her mum Carol, who carried out CPR until paramedics arrived.
 

After open-heart surgery, Karen was told she was extremely lucky to be alive. Two years on, she is back on her feet and taking on 10k races to raise funds for research into the condition.
Robert Storrie and Steven Robertson, from Barrhead, near Glasgow
THE pals were in fancy dress as Batman villain The Joker and superhero sidekick Robin when they saved families from a fire in a block of flats.
 

Robert, 30, and Steven, 31, ran into the flats and hammered on doors to get people out after spotting the blaze as they headed home from a fancy dress party in Paisley.
They have also set up The Superhero Fire Fund to help raise money to buy essentials for affected families.
Jimmy Milhench, from Edinburgh
WHEN he was a boy, Jimmy vowed that being blind wasn’t going to stop him living an active and fulfilling life.
 

Thanks to his fearless attitude, the 60-year-old taught himself to ski and now thinks nothing of speeding down perilous slopes.
Jimmy also helps to arrange short breaks for blind children and adults and, along with the RNIB, has helped mentormany people struggling tocope without sight.
Suzanne Fernando, from Ardossan, Ayrshire
This dedicated mum was diagnosed with cervical cancer at the age of 28 while expecting Aaron, her second child.
 

But the potentially deadly tumour would have gone undetected had she notbeen expecting.
She has set up her own cervical cancer awareness group in her community and travels the country telling women about the importance of smear tests, while also helping women battle the cruel disease.
Dr Phill Curry, from Glasgow
Doctor Phil and his dedicated team have saved the lives of hundreds of people when all hope seemed lost.
 

The heart transplant specialist is on call 24/7 in case a donor organ suddenly becomes available.
He flies across the UK in a special air ambulance at a moment’s notice to performlife-saving surgery that gives seriously ill people a second chance at life.
Susan McKay, Shona Campbell and Carol McCara, from Glasgow
THESE caring nurses have more than 20 years’ experience saving the lives of seriously ill premature babies.
 

Neonatal nurse practitioners Susan, Shona and Carol work around the clock caring for babies battling against theodds to survive.
Everyone – from patients and their families to the surgeons and the team of health professionals at the Princess Royal Hospital in Glasgow – agrees that the contribution the trio make to so many lives is outstanding.
Elizabeth Grieve, from Dumfries
THROUGH her work with a leading cancer charity, Elizabeth knows how important it is for terminally ill patients to spend time at home with loved ones.
 

The Marie Curie nurse helps make the transition from hospice to home smoother for patients who wish to spend their final days being cared for by family.
She is so dedicated to her job that she works as part of Marie Curie’s overnight service, starting her shift at 9pm and finishing at 7am the next morning – and even volunteers to help out on Christmas Day.
Margaret Clarke, from Inverness
Margaret has been scared of heights all her life but that didn’t stop her skydiving from 10,000ft to help her sick daughter.
 

Margaret, 70, took the plunge so Lucy can travel to Moscow for a pioneering stem-cell transplant which she hopes will stop the progression of multiple sclerosis. The skydive over St Andrews was one of several fundraisers Lucy’s family are doing to raise the &pound;40,000 she needs.
Ethne Woldman, from Newton Mearns, near Glasgow
When Ethne reflects on her life, she is determined the Holocaust and its aftermath should never be forgotten. 
 

She has spent decades helping those who emerged from the gates of Auschwitz 70 years ago. She helped form the Targu Mures Trust to provide money, medicine and care for 200 former inmates of the Nazi death camp.
Bobby Dinnie, from Glasgow
Bobby survived being shot in the Korean War and went on to become one of Scotland’s football scouts.
 

He nurtured the talent of Scotland legend Kenny Dalglish and worked with Sir Alex Ferguson, John Greig, Bertie Auld, Gordon Strachan, Walter Smith and Jock Wallace.
Now 82, he says he will never blow the whistle on his passion for football.

