 A FORMER Loyalist terror boss has told a High Court jury that he and pal Johnny “Mad Dog” Adair would be “huge scalps” for dissident Republican killers. 
 Sam “Skelly” McCrory was giving evidence at the trial of four men accused of plotting to murder him and his best friend Adair. 
Antoin Duffy, 39 Martin Hughes, 36, Paul Sands, 31 and John Gorman, 58, deny conspiring to murder Adair and McCrory – once major figures in the UDA and its “military wing” the Ulster Freedom Fighters.
Duffy and Gorman also deny being part of an alleged car bomb plot to murder the governor of Barlinnie jail.
McCrory told prosecutor Paul Kearney he and Adair were top targets for Republican extremists.
He said anyone harming them would be “held in high esteem by the Republican movement”.
The High Court in Glasgow heard Adair and McCrory had both been sentenced to 16 years for terrorist crimes but now lived in Ayrshire.
Adair said police told him in October 2013 to step up his security because his life was in danger from dissident Republicans, and that people had been arrested over a plot.
Asked if he considered himself under threat, Adair said: “All that was supposed to be over. But from their point of view, I would see myself as a target as a leader of Loyalism.”
Adair insisted he was now a man of peace and “irrelevant” to politics in Northern Ireland, but conceded that police believed he would be in danger if he returned to Ulster.
The court heard Adair commanded C Company of the UFF in Belfast’s Shankill Road during the Troubles.
Asked if his group had murdered up to 40 Catholics, he said: “It has been reported as that.”
 

Adair denied involvement in drug dealing and said he didn’t know any of the accused.
McCrory was jailed in 1993 for conspiracy to murder and possessing machine guns. He was freed as part of the Good Friday Agreement.
He told Donald Findlay QC, for Sands, that he had only been involved in one “military operation” in Northern Ireland. He said it was a plot to kill two IRA leaders but he was caught on the way to carry it out.
McCrory claimed to have been a political prisoner and said: “I’ve never killed anyone.”
Findlay asked him: “Was Johnny Adair somebody who sent people out to murder?” McCrory replied: “No. People volunteered.”
McCrory said he knew Sands to say hello to and was his friend on Facebook. Like Adair, he denied any involvement with dealing drugs.
Adair and McCrory gave evidence on Monday but it can only be reported today after restrictions were lifted.
Duffy, Hughes, Sands and Gorman are accused of plotting with others to kill Adair and McCrory between August 2010 and October 2013.
Plans were allegedly discussed at places including Shotts jail in Lanarkshire and a flat in Old Castle Road, Shawlands, Glasgow.
It’s claimed conspirators carried out “surveillance and reconnaissance” and tried to get guns and bullets.
Duffy and Gorman also deny being involved in a conspiracy to murder Barlinnie governor Derek McGill between June 2012 and last October.
All four accused deny joining others “with the intention of committing acts of terrorism”, and Hughes, Sands and Gorman deny intending to assist Duffy in terrorist acts.
Craig Convery, 37, Gary Convery, 34, and Gordon Brown, 29, deny charges linked to the alleged plots. The trial continues.

