A MAN yesterday went on trial accused of gunning down Kevin “Gerbil” Carroll in a supermarket car park then fleeing to Spain.
The notorious gangster was shot and killed in a supermarket carpark in January 2010.
The case against William Paterson, 35, began yesterday at the High Court in Glasgow.
 He denies murdering Carroll by repeatedly shooting him in the head and body in January 2010  at an Asda store in the city’s Robroyston. 
Paterson is also accused of attempting to defeat the ends of justice.
The charge states that on January 23, 2010, he boarded a flight to Malaga “to avoid arrest, prosecution and conviction”.
Paterson faces a number of firearms charges as well as another accusation of attempting to defeat the ends of justice.
He is also said to have been involved in the reset of a car or an alternative accusation of being in the vehicle knowing it had been taken without consent.
The jury were played an excerpt from a call made by Paterson from prison to his girlfriend Sarah Maguire in October 2014.
During the call he tells her he has received a copy of his indictment.
Maguire asked how many witnesses there was and he said “350”.
She is heard saying “sweet jesus”.
Paterson told Maguire her dad is included on the witness list and said “they will need him to confirm he bought my phone for me”.
Her father told prosecutor Iain McSporran that by January 2010 Paterson and his daughter had been in a relationship for “a few years”.
Detective sergeant Grant Durie told the court he was the crime scene manager and conducted a search of a property at Linn Gardens, Cumbernauld.
He said his colleague spoke to the householder, Mr Maguire and they then searched his daughter’s room.
DS Durie told the court that during the search they found a bulletproof vest under the bed.
Paterson has incriminated six other people and lodged a special defence of alibi claiming he was at his girlfriend’s house on the day of the murder.
The trial before judge Lord Armstrong continues.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

