A severely disabled grandfather is to have his case for the right to die heard by the Court of Session.
Gordon Ross, 66, said he hoped the hearing would clarify the legal position regarding assisted suicide.
He has called on the Lord Advocate to issue guidance that makes clear whether any person who helps him end his life would be charged with an offence. 
The Director of Public Prosecutions has issued guidelines for England but these do not apply to Scotland. 
Mr Ross said he believes that the present legal situation &quot;encourages suicide&quot; and discriminated against people with a disability. 
While he will not attend the hearing in person due to poor health, supporters of the pensioner's case are planning to stage a demonstration outside the court in Edinburgh's Parliament Square.
Campaigners have previously urged MSPs to pass the Assisted Suicide Bill which was introduced to Holyrood by the late MSP Margo Macdonald.
Mr Ross suffers from several serious medical conditions, including Parkinson's disease and loss of sensation in his arms and legs. 
He is unable to walk and uses a wheelchair, and cannot feed or dress himself or attend to his personal needs.
The former TV producer currently lives in a care home in Glasgow.
Explaining his decision to bring the case, Mr Ross said he fears that should a time come when he has &quot;had enough&quot; he will not be capable of ending his life without help - unlike an able-bodied person.
He said: &quot;I believe that, as a disabled person, I am currently being discriminated against. Anyone else, in any circumstances, can choose to end their own lives at any time. Because of my disability that is something I am unable to do. 
&quot;I do not wish to end my life, I want it to go on as long as I can. However, if my condition deteriorates to the point that I do want to take that action, I want to know what action the law might take were someone to assist me.&quot;
Mr Ross also argued that the current legal position encourages suicide.
He said: &quot;Amongst those with conditions such as mine, people might choose to take their own life before they would otherwise want to because they know they won't be able to in future. 
&quot;Ending life early in such circumstances is tragic and the law should not be putting up barriers to prevent people from living longer.
&quot;I hope the court will consider this and compel the Lord Advocate to issue guidance, as exists in England, as to what support can or cannot be given to people in situations such as mine.&quot;
The judicial review at the Court of Session is expected to last two days.
