 THREE men accused of plotting to murder two former Loyalist terror bosses were taped as they drove to the home of one of their alleged targets, a court heard yesterday. 
 One of them allegedly said of Sam “Skelly” McCrory : “We’ll just drive up to him and f****** jump out and blast him. In his ear.” 
Police bugged and followed the 4x4 Jeep Antoin Duffy, 39, Martin Hughes, 36, and Paul Sands, 31, were in, jurors were told.
 All three deny conspiring to murder ex-UDA and Ulster Freedom Fighters leaders McCrory and Johnny “Mad Dog” Adair . A fourth accused, John Gorman, also denies all charges. 
The High Court in Glasgow heard Duffy and Hughes left Glasgow on October 1, 2013, and picked up Sands in Ayrshire, where McCrory and Adair live.
Detective Sergeant Douglas Bryden told the court that Sands was heard saying about McCrory: “There are so many places you could hit this guy.
“I mean, I could go and and chap his door right now and we could probably put him in the boot if three of us could manage it.”
Sands allegedly added: “This is the road he walks every single day. You can’t go wrong. It’s a straight road.”
DS Bryden said Duffy made the remark about shooting McCrory in his ear, and also said they needed “a sawn-off and a revolver as the back-up”.
Duffy allegedly added that they might be able to get an AK47 assault rifle, but it was “too high-profile for this first”. It’s claimed he went on: “We want to get the fella out the blue and not have the other running scared.”
DS Bryden said the accused discussed vantage points near McCrory’s home, cameras at a nearby school and shops, and keeping away from the school. He added that Duffy said: “I almost hit him two years ago.”
The detective agreed with Derek Ogg QC, for Duffy, that no crime was committed in the tapes and no weapons were in the Jeep.
Duffy and Gorman, 58, also deny being part of a plot to kill Barlinnie jail governor Derek McGill with a car bomb. Three other men deny organised crime charges.
The trial continues.

