 NOW that the election is over I look forward to returning to a purely Glasgow focus in this column. 
That is not to say that I won't comment on national issues. Glasgow is a big city. We influence Scottish and UK decisions and we are affected by them.
But Glasgow Now is a local newspaper. In any event, there is so much going on in the city and there is always plenty to talk about.
 However, because the election was only last week it is reasonable to expect a comment from me on the results . 
Let me begin by congratulating the SNP on their electoral success. I have already written to all of the new Glasgow MPs to wish them well. I also made clear that my council will work alongside them in the interests of the city.
I have made contact in similar terms with the new Secretary of State for Scotland, David Mundell.
I didn't vote SNP or Tory but they have been elected. The people are the bosses and my job is to work with both governments and anyone else who will work with me in the interests of Glasgow.
As for Labour - the results were terrible. I would like to thank those who voted for my party. And it is right to pay tribute to Glasgow's former MPs who lost their seats after years of dedicated service to their constituents and our city.
But there is no disguising the devastating scale of the defeat.
And I'm not going to pretend that there is a simple answer to how Labour can win back trust.
For the best part of three years the dominant issue in Scottish politics has been nationalism; a politics based, in the final analysis, on identity - Scottishness.

We're as proudly Scottish as anyone else but we've struggled to deal with nationalism because Labour politics isn't based on identity but is instead based on values - of solidarity and extending opportunity beyond the privileged few.
We didn't join the Labour Party because we are Scottish but rather because we are democratic socialists.
And call us old fashioned but we actually believe that we have more in common with the vast majority of people in Liverpool or Manchester than we do with a Tory landowner who just happens to live north of the River Tweed.
And we know that by pooling and sharing resources across Britain we can redistribute from the wealthy few and be better able to provide the services that we all rely on, like the NHS and the state pension.
Values or identity. Oil and water.
But however challenging it is for us to deal with the growth in nationalism we must do so.
Labour can again become the party best placed to deliver the changes that people want to see. But it won't be quick or easy.
Which is why I think it would be a real mistake to turn against our Scottish Leader, Jim Murphy. He has only been leader for 20 weeks. Superman couldn't have turned Labour's electoral chances around in that time.
He and the deputy leader, Kezia Dugdale, have done a lot of good in the last 5 months but they need, and are entitled to more time. And if not Jim then who?
But the final and most important outcome of the election is that we have ended up with a majority Tory government. 5 more damned years of them.
The implications of that really hit home when I heard that Ian Duncan-Smith has been put back in charge of welfare reform, and Michael Gove plans to repeal the Human Rights Act.
And the next period will be dominated again by constitutional politics, this time the referendum on whether we should remain in the European Union.
While all that is going on, the growth in the number of people on zero-hours contracts will continue, and there will be more people relying on foodbanks.
It's heart-breaking.
Thank God that in the midst of all that there is Glasgow. My home city that I'm so proud of. Scotland's big success story. UK council of the year.
Next week I will write about the exciting issues we face as a city. And how we are successfully responding to them.
And I promise I will never get so distracted or overwhelmed by national politics that I forget that I'm paid to deliver quality public services despite the cuts, foster opportunities so that all of our citizens can get on in life, and stand up for Glasgow.

