 WHAT a week it has been in Scottish politics. After a general election campaign which flew by, during which we knocked more doors and delivered more leaflets than you could imagine, the SNP won a landslide victory in Scotland . Polls may have predicted it each week, I probably even reported them in this very column, but I don’t think we in the SNP ever truly allowed ourselves to believe the scale of victory we were headed for. 
 I would never have thought in my lifetime, in my home city of Glasgow , we would ever see the day that there was not a single Labour MP in this city. 
Just 9 months after the most vibrant, engaging national discussion during the referendum campaign the people of Scotland chose to overwhelmingly place their trust in a party which would stand up for Scotland at Westminster. The scale of the SNP’s victory is difficult to exaggerate, nearly 1.5 million votes were cast for the SNP last Thursday – the largest number of votes ever won by any political party in Scotland, that is 50% of votes cast in Scotland. This resulted in an incredible 56/59 SNP MPs in Scotland, including all 7 Glasgow seats.
There is no doubt that the political landscape has changed in Scotland. After the first election since the referendum we now have solid proof that the tectonic plates of Scottish politics have shifted forever.

The SNP’s victory was an overwhelming endorsement of our message of fairness and anti-austerity and demonstrates that the Scottish people believe that the SNP was best placed to stand up to the Tories. Even if every seat in Scotland had been won by Labour, there would still have been a majority Conservative government due to Labour’s complete and utter collapse throughout the UK.
 We also saw the Labour party resoundingly rejected across the UK. Here in Glasgow, the Scottish Labour party lost key figures such as Margaret Curran and Ian Davidson, who previously held their seats with 10,000+ majorities and, of course, we saw Jim Murphy lose his seat in East Renfrewshire by nearly 3000 votes , leaving Scottish Labour with a non-parliamentarian leader. 
In the days following the election result we saw our MPs line up behind the First Minister, both in Edinburgh and London. Press and media are still getting to know our new MPs, publishing profiles and CVs. It’s great to see such diversity among our new MPs, all from different backgrounds, a variety of professions and a healthy gender mix. There’s a student and a QC, new members and veteran councillors, a much healthier proportion of women than previously – but there’s still room for improvement there.
Our fantastic big group of 56 MPs come from all walks of life, which is just as well because so do their constituents. This wealth of experience can only help when it comes to standing up to the Tories, who have already started to put together a medieval legislative agenda including scrapping the Human Rights Act and limiting trade unions’ ability to take strike action.

The Human Rights Act is in place to protect every man, woman and child across the UK from anyone, particularly governments, who should seek to limit their freedoms. As the First Minister pointed out, it is the HRA which allowed citizens to challenge the government on the legality of the immoral ‘Bedroom Tax’.
The campaign is now over and it’s time to get to work. Westminster and the UK Government cannot be allowed to continue as though nothing happened in Scotland last week and over the past year. Scotland’s voice must be heard and I can assure you our SNP MPs are not going to Westminster to settle down but to stand up for Scotland.

