A DRUG dealer yesterday told of the moment he saw gangster Kevin ‘Gerbil’ Carroll being shot to death in his car .
Steven Glen told the High Court in Glasgow that he had been summoned to a meeting with Carroll at an Asda car park in Robroyston, Glasgow, in January 2010.
Glen said he was was afraid of Carroll because of his reputation for being extremely violent and agreed to meet him in an the car park because he felt safe.
But seconds after their meeting the 29-year-old was shot repeatedly as he sat in the back of car.
Glen said that Carroll had threatened him during their conversation.
He told the court: “I can’t remember all the stuff he was asking me about, it was basically ‘You’re working for me now, anybody that doesn’t fall in line is going to get banged’.”
Glen, 29, of Balornock, Glasgow, was giving evidence at the trial of William Paterson, 35, who is accused of murdering Carroll on January 13, 201 0.
He is also accused of attempting to defeat the ends of justice. It is claimed that on January 23, 2010 he boarded a flight from Glasgow to Malaga “to avoid arrest, prosecution and conviction”.
Paterson faces a number of firearms charges as well as another accusation of attempting to defeat the ends of justice.
He is also said to have been involved in the reset of a car.
Glen told the court he was a drug dealer in 2010 and worked for a man called Alan Johnstone.
The jury heard Carroll phoned him on January 12 and said he wanted to meet him. The witness said he phoned Johnstone and was advised against a meeting but Carroll texted the next day.
Prosecutor Iain McSporran asked what the text was about and was told Carroll said: “I’m going to come to your house and use my feet to get in this time.”
 

Glen alleged Carroll also said: “Bring that bitch Babesy with you.”
The jury heard Babesy is Johnstone.
The court was told Glen didn’t want to meet Carroll as he was afraid because he was “a violent person”.
Glen said he asked his friend Jason McConnell to watch from the cafe in Asda in case anything happened to him.
The jury was told Glen met Carroll and his two friends Stephen McLaggan and John Bonner outside Asda.
The court heard that when Glen went back to his car after the meeting and began to drive off he heard “bangs and cracks”.
He said: “I looked up there was a motor parked in front of the motor Gerbil was in, it was two people shooting at it.”
Glen said the two people were firing into the car from either side when he drove off.
He said there was an outstanding warrant for him at the time and he changed his car after the incident.
He said he was “panicking” because he heard the police were looking for a person who had been speaking with Carroll. The jury heard he phoned police offering to go in the next week to speak to them, but was arrested before he had the chance.
Under cross examination by defence solicitor Des Finnieston, Glen denied knowing anything about the shooting.
He told the court his friend McConnell was the only person who knew he was meeting Carroll at Asda that day.
He told the court: “I’m not daft I know how it looks, I know it didn’t have anything to do with me but know how it looks.”
Finnieston put to him it was a “coincidence” and Glen agreed.
Carroll’s former partner Kelly Green also gave evidence yesterday and told the court that on the day of the murder he was “normal” and “happy”.
She said his friends John Bonner and Steven McLaggan picked him up and he said he was “nipping out for 10 minutes”.
Green said: “I got a message from him before this happened it just said ‘I love you’ then I got a phone call saying Kevin had been shot.”
She described Carroll as a “loving partner and fantastic father”.
Carroll’s friends McLaggan and Bonner, both 28, told the trial that when a car stopped in front of the Audi they were in they ran off.
The court heard when they returned the doors were closed and locked.
McClaggan told the jury he saw one person get out of the car before he ran off.
He told the jury he heard bangs and didn’t look back while he ran, and went back after he saw the car that stopped in front of the Audi driving out of Asda.
Paterson denies the charges and is incriminating six other people.
He has lodged a special defence of alibi claiming he was at an address in Cumbernauld on the day of the shooting. The trial before judge Lord Armstrong continues.

