Police are revisiting two areas in the north of Glasgow a week after separate incidents saw a man shot in the street and a man attacked in a barber shop.
A 29-year-old man suffered &quot;lacerations to his head&quot; after being attacked in Gary's Barber Shop in Springburn Way, Springburn, at about 16:15 on 7 May.
Another man, also 29, was run over and then shot in a targeted attack on Royston Road at about 18:30.
Police are questioning motorists and pedestrians in both areas on Thursday.
In the barbers attack, two men entered the shop and approached the victim, who was then attacked by one of the men.
The suspects then left the shop and drove off.
Police said the victim required hospital treatment for &quot;lacerations to his head&quot;.
In the shooting incident, which is being treated as attempted murder, the victim got out of his Audi car on Royston Road at about 18:30 before he was &quot;deliberately&quot; struck by a white Mitsubishi 4x4.
A man then got out of the car and shot him while he was on the ground.
The car made off at speed from the area, being driven &quot;erratically&quot;, and was recovered in Robroyston a short time later.
Det Insp Ogilvie Ross, of Greater Glasgow CID, said: &quot;Officers have already carried out extensive investigations in both areas, including reviewing CCTV footage and conducting door-to-door inquiries.&quot;
He said investigating officers had been &quot;pleased with the initial response&quot; to inquiries but were keen to speak to &quot;anyone who may have seen something out of the ordinary, regardless of how insignificant they may believe it to be&quot;.
He added: &quot;Our aim this evening is to speak to local people in the area and ask them to jog their memories from last week.
&quot;In relation to the Royston Road incident, we are particularly keen to speak to anyone who may have seen a white Mitsubishi 4x4 driving erratically in the Royston Road and the Robroyston areas of Glasgow last Thursday. 
&quot;Similarly, did you see anyone fleeing from Gary's Barber Shop in Springburn Way last Thursday afternoon, around 4.30pm? Has someone you know been acting suspiciously, or appeared on edge recently?&quot;
