 THE father of a child at the centre of an abortion hoax trial made a formal complaint about the police when they failed to investigate his claims, a senior officer told a jury yesterday. 
He suspected he had been duped and reported the child’s mother and her gay friend but was told by police they would not investigate because it was a “civil matter”.
It was only when he complained formally that a senior officer reviewed the case and viewed it as a criminal fraud.
The dad said he had reported his concerns when the baby was months old but he did not get rightful custody of her until she was around three years old.
 The girl’s mother, a 29-year-old from Perth, and her male friend are on trial over an alleged scam to deprive the child’s biological father of his parental rights by pretending his baby had been aborted.  Investigating officer Detective Inspector Marshall McKay told the trial: “The investigation was somewhat complex… 
“The question of criminality aspect meant it was suspended. The reason I got involved was because there was a complaint against the police. I looked at it and I had the belief it was a criminal matter.”
The father only got the child back in 2014 after DNA tests proved he was the father.
Perth Sheriff Court was told that the child’s mother and her homosexual friend had signed the birth certificate and claimed to be the child’s natural parents.
The court heard the gay man, who is 35 and from Glasgow, wanted a child of his own and claimed the baby girl had been given to him by a lesbian lawyer called Clare Green, acting as a surrogate. The father was suspicious about the story and began a civil case which led to the child being DNA tested – and proven to be his own daughter.
A 29-year-old friend of the mother yesterday told the court she was also suspicious about the surrogate tale as soon as she saw the baby.
She said: “She was beautiful, gorgeous. She looked like him, her father. She was the double of him. They were two peas in a pod.”
She claimed that when she confronted the accused man, he warned her “don’t tell anybody” and fled back to Glasgow.
The witness said she had later reported what she had seen to the baby’s natural father and said: “He broke down. He just cried. He just wanted to make sure that if she was his, to get her home safe.”
His former lover and her gay friend deny a number of charges against them. The trial continues.

