A WITNESS to the shooting of gangster Kevin &quot;Gerbil&quot; Carroll told a court yesterday he was blasted by a hitman holding a Clint Eastwood western-style silver gun.
Emma Busby, 35, told the High Court in Glasgow she noticed the &quot;big silver barrell&quot; as she backed up with her trolley outside the Asda supermarket when she heard a shot being fired.
She told how she saw two men get out of dark car that screeched in front of her before she made her way back into the shop.
Anne McIntosh, 46, described crouching beside her car when she heard gunshots and moving herself to the front of the car.
Shop manager Steven McKenna, 49, said he watched from an office window &quot;shocked and motionless&quot; as the incident unfolded.
They were giving evidence at the trial of William Paterson, 35, who denies murdering Kevin 'Gerbil' Carroll on January 13, 2010 at the car park of Asda, Robroyston.
It is claimed - while masked and acting with others - he repeatedly discharged loaded handguns at 29 year-old Carroll shooting him on the head and body.
Paterson is also accused of attempting to defeat the ends of justice.
The indictment claims that on January 23 2010 he boarded a flight from Glasgow to Malaga &quot;to avoid arrest, prosecution and conviction&quot;.
Paterson further faces a number of firearms charges as well as another accusation of attempting to defeat the ends of justice.
He is also said to have been involved in the reset of a car or an alternative accusation of being in the vehicle knowing it had been taken without consent.
Mrs Busby said she had been shopping with her mum and went out to put the items in her car.
And, that she was near the entrance to the supermarket when she saw a car and heard it screeching and stopping in front of another car, and initially thought it had crashed.
Advocate depute Iain McSporran, prosecuting, asked: &quot;Was it the sound or sight of it you were first aware of?&quot;
The witness replied: &quot;Both, I think.&quot;
Asked if she was aware of the car before it stopped she said: &quot;Yes, because I was wanting to cross, I was going to cross the road so I saw it.&quot;
She said: &quot;I saw two guys jumping out the car and I saw a gun so that's when I started back up with my trolley.
&quot;I heard the shots that's when I turned and went back in to the shop.&quot;
Mrs Busby added: &quot;I remember someone jumping out of the passenger side, I just remember seeing a gun.&quot;
Mr McSporran asked: &quot;What did you see of the gun?
Mrs Busby said: &quot;Just silver, I remember thinking it was like a Clint Eastwood western style gun with a rolling barrel.&quot;
She said the person held it in their left hand and she could see it enough to see the &quot;big silver barrel&quot;.
The witness told the jury: &quot;I thought he was going to turn it on everyone in Asda, I didn't equate it to the other car.&quot;
She described walking back pulling her trolley but turned it round and went back inside after hearing shots being fired.
Mrs Busby said she thought there were eight to ten shots fired.
She told the jury she was &quot;hysterical&quot; when she went back inside adding: &quot;I went in to the chemist and sat down and was sick.
&quot;I had a drink of water and just remember lots of screaming and shouting.&quot;
Mrs McIntosh from Stepps, told the court she had just loaded her car when she was aware of another car travelling fast which stopped a few cars up from where she was parked.
She said: &quot;I happened to look up at that point and as the car stopped, masked gunmen came out of the car and with their pistols held in front of them, walked towards a car and I just couldn't believe what I was seeing.
&quot;I just started wondering what on earth is going on.
&quot;Not long after the people got out of the car there was what I assume was gun fire.&quot;
The teacher added: &quot;I just crouched down, it was an automatic response.&quot;
The jury heard she &quot;shimmied&quot; her way to the front of her car where she sat.
When questioned further by Mr McSporran she confirmed she saw one person with a gun but was &quot;aware&quot; of a second person.
Mrs McIntosh claimed she saw the car the men got out of stopping further up the parking area at the back of her car and realised one of the gunmen was getting in the car.
She said she called 999 to report what she had seen and waited to speak to police when they arrived.
Asda manager Steven McKenna, 49, told the jury he saw the incident unfold from an upstairs office.
He described the Audi being blocked in by another car and two men, from the passenger and driver side getting out with guns.
Mr McKenna described watching the men's arms &quot;jumping up&quot; and the noise &quot;came back up to him&quot;.
He claimed that due to the stance and build he believed the people that got out of the car were male.
The court heard he watched &quot;shocked&quot; and &quot;motionless&quot; but then activated a nearby panic alarm and phoned the emergency services as he made his way down to the car park.
He was given Mr Carroll's name by someone at the car which he told the police during his 999 call.
Paterson denies the charges and incriminates six other people.
He has also lodged a special defence of alibi claiming he was at a house in Cumbernauld on the day of the shooting.
The trial before judge Lord Armstrong continues.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

