 MEET the women who are  determined to make their way  in a man’s world. 
Julie Dickson, Alexandra Preston and Kirsteen Munro are three of the few women in the male-dominated world of modern apprenticeships.
They are breaking the industrial mould by training as engineers and all three say they are proud to be helping lead the way for women in their field of work right across  Scotland.
The women all felt that apprenticeships were more appealing than higher or further education courses and have worked their way  up through the training schemes at Scottish Gas.
This year’s Scottish Apprenticeship Week launches on Monday and there is a real drive to encourage young people into trades and industry, particularly young women.
Engineering has traditionally  been seen as one of the most  male-dominated sectors but more and more girls are now considering it  as an option. And women already working in the field are hoping as many of those jobs as possible will be taken up by other women.
Fiona Stewart, head of national training programme operations with Skills Development Scotland said: “We need more young women to take up the apprenticeships offered by many employers across Scotland.
“There are plenty of opportunities across different sectors and apprenticeships are no longer just for men.
“It can be complex, technical work but we’re really encouraged by the calibre of young women increasingly choosing an apprenticeship as a viable and rewarding alternative to university.
“Apprenticeship schemes benefit not just the career prospects of young people but our communities and the wider economy, too.”
 Julie Dickson 
WHEN Julie Dickson started working in the gas industry, she wasn’t surprised to find she was the only woman on the premises.
 But she says she feels right at home in the hard-working world of engineering and hopes more women will soon be joining her in the Scottish Gas workforce. 
The 24-year-old was keen to follow in her father’s footsteps.
She said: “My dad works for an aerospace engineering company and started his career as an apprentice.
“When I was 14, his firm had a ‘Bring your child to work day’ and I remember being really interested in the kind of work he was doing.
“I always enjoyed practical classes at school and started to think engineering would be the right job for me.”
 

Julie, from Hamilton, is working towards becoming a fully qualified service engineer as part of the five-year scheme offered at the Scottish Gas academy.
She says she gets total respect from other apprentices – despite being the only female on the course.
Julie said: “There are no barriers for women looking for a career in the industry.
“On my first day, I wasn’t surprised to discover I was the only female in the whole facility. I know from experience that females are not encouraged to go down the apprenticeship route at school.
“I’m treated no differently than my male colleagues and the encouragement I get from my instructors is amazing.
“I’d like to think I could be an inspiration to women looking to get into engineering. I want to set an example by working through my apprenticeship to become one of the top engineers in my field.
“With hard work and a bit of determination, it doesn’t matter if you’re male or female.”
Julie wants to encourage more young people to consider engineering as a serious option for the future.
She added: “It’s the best decision I’ve ever made. I’m being paid to learn on the job and guaranteed employment at the end of my training.”
 Alexandra Preston 
WHEN Alexandra Preston finished high school, she never imagined she would end up working in a male-dominated industry.
Now, she couldn’t see herself doing anything else and while she admits it’s tough, she loves the challenge.
 Alexandra, 22, from Bishopton, Renfrewshire, said: “It can be tough – especially at the start when you are learning everything from scratch – but you make a mistake once you learn not to do it again.” 
When she left school, the idea of spending years at university didn’t appeal so she decided to take up a trade instead.
 

She joined the apprenticeship scheme at Scottish Gas and now, after completing her two-year training, is a fully qualified service repair engineer.
Alexandra said: “The thought of going to university for three years then not getting a job didn’t appeal to me.
“I’ve always been very practical and liked the idea of learning on the job and having a trade for life.”
She added: “The apprenticeship is hands-on and you get to work with the very best people in the industry – and gain qualifications.
“I was able to learn a host of skills and I’m now a fully qualified engineer. I can repair a boiler or damaged radiator.”
After completing her apprenticeship five years ago, Alexandra was offered a full-time position.
She said: “Taking on an apprenticeship is the best thing I’ve ever done.”
 Kirsteen Munro 
AFTER leaving school with a solid set of qualifications, Kirsteen Munro decided that a modern apprenticeship offered the best career path.
Now, having completed her own apprenticeship, Kirsteen would love to see more women follow in her footsteps.
She said “There is no reason why females should be held back in the workplace and Scottish Gas promote equal opportunities, which is why I was so keen to take up a modern apprenticeship.
“We have quite a few females in our department and that number increases each year. I get on well with all my male colleagues and there is a mutual respect there.
“I’ve worked hard to get where I am and if I ever need any work-related advice, they are always on hand to help.
“There are so many opportunities for females now – especially in our workplace – and I’ve never once felt out of place.”
 

As part of her apprenticeship, Kirsteen attended college and also took part in a practical training scheme allowing her to learn key skills while on the job.
But rather than feeling like token girls, she argues that she is part of a growing band of women apprentices ready to pick up the tools of the trades.
She said: “I felt the academic path wasn’t right for me. I wanted a job where I could gain qualifications, learn a trade and get paid at the same time.
“I quickly decided that I wanted to find a role where I could learn on the job and I decided this was the best way forward.”
 Kirsteen, 29, from Glasgow , added: “The support I’ve received from colleagues on the shop floor to those helping me at college has helped boost my confidence and proved that I can be part of what has always been viewed as a man’s world.” 
“Women can be just as successful as men if they have the right attitude – there’s no reason why your gender should hold you back. Times have changed and there are more opportunities for women now than ever before.”

