AFTER a year of significant uncertainty for Scotland’s financial services sector, the industry is focused on making the most of opportunity against a backdrop of an improving economy.
According to Owen Kelly, chief executive of Scottish Financial Enterprise, the sector has rapidly returned to business as usual following the ambiguity caused by last year’s referendum.
“I think there was an element of things being put on hold in the run up to the vote but those big questions around the currency, regulation and so on are now behind us,” says Kelly.
Betsy Williamson of recruitment firm Core-Asset Consulting says there has also been so sign of the so-called ‘neverendum’ that plagued Canada’s financial sector following the Quebec referendum in 1995, where the majority of large financial services companies began moving their headquarters to Toronto despite a no vote.
“Indeed, with the referendum behind us, we have witnessed a greater willingness on the part of expatriates to consider a return to Scotland,” she says.
As well as the referendum, the big-ticket M&amp;A deals seen in the sector in Scotland were the big story of 2014.
Aberdeen Asset Management’s acquisition of Scottish Widows Investment Partnership and Standard Life Investments’ purchase of Ignis were broadly seen as positive moves for the fund management industry north of the border.
Martin Currie, the Edinburgh-based equity specialist, was also acquired by US asset manager Legg Mason but continues to be managed in Scotland with the same management and investment teams.
While the &pound;1bn-plus total of those high profile deals made it an unusually active year, advisers believe the fast-shifting nature of the industry means more are inevitable.
Stephen Phillips of law firm CMS says the need for companies to grow their fund size is a significant factor.
“Given the international nature of the financial services sector I would not rule out the potential acquisition of some Scottish-based funds going forward.
“This could be good news for our economy as maintaining a strong presence in Scotland, where there is a great skills base, is often an attractive option for the acquiring company.”
Although Jamie Partridge, head of investment management in Scotland for Deloitte, anticipates a quieter year for transactions in 2015 after last year’s major deals he says the nature of the sector means deals will still be done.
“Asset management is a human capital industry with a fairly well-trodden business cycle. 
“Entrepreneurs in the sector, often spinouts from the large firms, occupy a particular area in the market, grow their business and then sell at a time of realistic value.
“That creates a rich entrepreneurial culture and a relatively constant stream of new businesses.”
George Reid, head of financial services for EY in Scotland, says increasing competition means management teams are now taking stock and identifying opportunities for merger and acquisition-led growth.
“Incremental cost increases, squeezed margins and regulatory pressures, combined with interest from private equity in acquiring assets in financial services are likely to drive merger and acquisitions in the sector.
“The companies that will be best placed to take advantage of this will be those already demonstrating regulatory best practice as they will have the most to gain from increasing scale and more time to consider such opportunities.”
Further consolidation will take place at a time when the sector is seeing increased demand on the back of a recovering economy.
Despite the current challenges facing the oil and gas sector, growth in the wider Scottish economy is predicted to continue to strengthen with the latest Bank of Scotland Business Monitor survey showing more than a third of Scottish businesses expect to see turnover increase in the six months ahead.
That is fuelling growing demand for lending.
Alan Maudsley, head of corporate development, Barclays Corporate Banking in Scotland, says heightened competition in the market means lenders need to be more proactive in meeting the needs of businesses.
“As the recovery continues, the lending environment remains competitive.
“Companies looking for funding are in a strong position, with lower borrowing costs and banks having to think differently to win business with innovative and effective lending solutions.”
A number of banks have increased their presence north of the border, including HSBC, which saw a 35 per cent increase in its corporate banking headcount across Scotland.
As well as traditional bank lending, other funders are also seeing significant growth in demand.
Alan Anderson, head of sales for Bibby Factors in Scotland, says the firm has just enjoyed a record quarter with a significant increase in the number of invoice financing deals put in place.
“I think businesses are now much more aware of the options available to access funding and how they can use a combination of financing routes to meet their needs,” says Anderson.
With developments such as the growth of crowdfunding platforms, businesses now have much greater access to funding.
Michael Stoneham, a partner in Brodies’ banking &amp; finance team, says with liquidity not an issue at present there is a danger of “too much debt chasing too few investment opportunities, leading again to unsustainable margins and poor lending practices”.
He says this is partly caused by fragmentation of lending sources at the smaller scale and community level.
“Regulation of the new entities can be uncertain, and their administration systems may not be fully responsive to the needs of loan portfolio management, so this is an evolving area.”
The growing burden of regulation at both a European and UK level also continues to post challenges for firms across the sector.
Catriona Munro, a partner at Maclay Murray &amp; Spens, says there will be no let-up in 2015, citing the decision to hand the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) new powers to enforce competition law as a move which will significantly heighten regulatory risks.
“The FCA will expect firms to self-report breaches of competition law as soon as they become aware of them.
“This will, effectively, force firms to hand potentially incriminating evidence to the regulator on a plate,” she says.
Munro expects an upturn in enforcement activity, exposing firms to the risk of substantial fines. 
“The risks are too substantial to be ignored and any issues should be addressed, as competitors may be willing to blow the whistle and implicate rivals to obtain immunity or reduced fines.
“Effective competition compliance procedures are a must in this new regulatory environment.”
The demands being placed on firms in the sector by regulatory change are also leading to skills shortages in some areas.
A recent report from PwC found only five per cent of companies in the financial services sector are confident they can secure all the skills they need amid rising demand for more people in areas such as technology, customer service and risk and compliance.
The proportion of industry leaders expressing concerns over the availability of skills has risen from less than 50 per cent in the survey three years ago.
Mark McFall, group managing director for Change Recruitment, says there is a “real shortage” of available talent for those with expertise in the regulatory space.
“As more and more regulation comes to the market that skills gap is growing ever more acute. “We’ve had to go further afield to try and find this talent, namely into financial centres such as London and Luxembourg.”
Mags Arthur, business director of Hays financial &amp; professional services in Scotland, says recruitment for the sector has changed significantly in recent years.
“Pre-recession, the majority of professionals were permanent employees.
“Then during the recession there was a massive swing to contract workers, as headcounts were reduced or people were made redundant, and employers demanded more flexibility from their workforce.
“We’re now seeing a clash between permanent and contractor employee requirements, as both sectors are buoyant.
“Now that the economy is improving, banks that were previously relying on contract workers are in a position to recruit permanent staff.
“The problem is the experienced professionals they’re looking for have been very happy earning contractor rates in recent years and it’s proving difficult to tempt them back to permanent employment.”
The seismic changes to pension rules which came into force an April, coupled with an improving economic backdrop, are seeing strong demand for wealth management.
Graham Storrie, managing director of Edinburgh-headquartered private banking group Adam &amp; Co, says the sector is “very competitive”.
“It is a very dynamic market place with a number of new providers out there but it does keep everyone on their toes.”
Storrie says Adam is seeing the benefits of its investment in IT in recent years with some 60 per cent of clients signing up for digital banking.
Although wealth management services have traditionally been used by older customers, Storrie says the age profile of new customers is changing.
“We are seeing more younger people coming to us as entrepreneurs in sectors like games development to sell their businesses.
“They’ve taken a lot of risk in getting to that stage and now want to ensure they protect what they have.”
According to Darren Scoon, strategic business manager for chartered financial planning firm Principal &amp; Prosper, the recent pension reforms will be a significant boost for the sector.
“The landscape for professional financial advice is very buoyant and a lot of people who in the past might not have considered it are doing so now.”
The Edinburgh-based firm opened an office in Glasgow last year and in April acquired Border Insurance, which will add around 200 to 300 clients to its existing base of 1,300.
“It is becoming more difficult for the small operators in this market given the increased regulation and the need to have succession planning to provide continuity of service,” points out Scoon.
While the sector continues to face a number of challenges – albeit against a broadly positive backdrop – SFE’s Kelly argues the biggest single issue across the industry currently is the pace of technology change in areas such as the use of ‘big data’.
“We are seeing the advent of a new wave of technological change and these innovations take hold and multiply very quickly. How businesses respond to that is a common issue right across the sector.”
Luke Scanlon, technology law expert at Pinsent Masons, says one intriguing question currently being debated is whether the likes of Google and Facebook will enter the banking fray.
“Both companies have the capital to meet the liquidity requirements and know the technology better than most banks, but are the incentives and profit margins enough for them to want to provide pure banking products?” he questions.
Peter Kirk, managing director in Accenture’s financial services group, says new entrants pose a significant threat to the banking sector in particular and could change consumer perceptions about how a bank should operate.
“In order to remain relevant, the incumbents must look ahead to spot those parts of their businesses models that could be targeted by these entrants.
“In response, banks should fast-track the use of state-of-the-art technology, including big data, biometric security features and wearable devices and collaborate more with organisations outside the financial services industry to create new business models and revenue streams.”
 Factfile: Financial services sector 
● Over two million people work across the UK in financial services and related professional services – which includes legal services, accounting services and management consultancy – accounting for seven per cent of total UK employment.
● The sector employs 150,400 in Scotland, including 51,400 in Edinburgh and 35,300 in Glasgow.
● Of total UK financial services employment of one million, the majority are in banking (427,900) with insurance employing 313,700; securities dealing employing 55,800; and fund management employing 33,400.
● UK financial services contributed &pound;66bn in tax revenue in 2013/14 – 11.5 per cent of total UK tax receipts.
 Source: The City UK report 2015
 
 Financial services – Life assurance   THE sweeping changes to the pensions rules brought in this April heralded the biggest change to the sector for many years. 
People aged over 55 are now able to effectively cash in their pensions and spend them as they wish rather than having to buy an annuity.
While the full impact on the industry of the move to give savers much more control over their money will take some time to assess, George Reid, EY’s head of financial services in Scotland, says it represents both a huge opportunity and threat.
“It also presents a huge operational challenge.
“The changes don’t just mean a simple tweak to the current environment, it requires a complete rethink of how the industry engages with customers and their money.
“Inevitably, this will mean intense competition from incumbent players, but new players will emerge.
“It could see the resurgence of banks as the suppliers of helpful support and solutions throughout retirement, and fund managers will be looking to maximise their share of this &pound;30bn-plus market.”
Ewen Fleming, financial services partner and practice leader at Grant Thornton in Scotland, says customers increasingly want better service from their providers.
“Firms are slowly delivering this as they invest in digital propositions, develop their culture and deliver on the FCA’s conduct agenda.
“However, the scale of change of these pension reforms is threatening service performance and cost.
“Most of the big life players have recruited heavily both to resource these change programmes and to man their contact centres for the upsurge in flexible retirement activity, but they are still unsure exactly what is going to happen and what contact volume to expect.”
Stephen Phillips, a financial services specialist at law firm CMS, says he believes the changes will prove beneficial for a number of Scottish firms.
“In terms of the Scottish market place, Standard Life’s exposure to the pension rule changes looks fairly minimal given annuity sales account for only a marginal portion of their business.
“It is therefore in a strong position to exploit the forthcoming changes along with many Scottish-based funds which may benefit from more direct purchases of alternative pension savings products.”
Richard Slater, head of pensions for Deloitte in Scotland, also believes there are opportunities for Scottish firms to benefit.
“The fund management community, and those insurers which have both annuity and fund management arms, could see a significant boom in business as individuals choose to remain invested in products.
“Previously, there would have been a cliff-edge withdrawal with the purchase of an annuity.
“For those Scottish businesses that can innovate and create cost-effective drawdown solutions to complement the annuity approach, there really is a significant market opportunity with freedom and choice.
“Those who can adapt in this way will prosper.”
 
 Financial services - Banks 
CONSOLIDATION among existing players, a wave of new entrants and the rapid pace of technological innovation mean things are changing fast across the banking sector.
Scotland appears to be proving resilient amid a backdrop of upheaval with industry figures showing the nation’s banking sector continues to grow in terms of headcount.
The likes of Tesco, Virgin Money and Sainsbury’s – all now with significant operations in Scotland – have relatively quickly established impressive market share.
The rise of the so-called challenger banks, both in the retail and business banking sector, continues apace.
Steve Williams, senior partner for Scotland at Deloitte, says it is “a sub-sector with real momentum behind it” having nearly doubled its share of the retail lending market in just three years.
“We’ve recently seen Virgin post impressive results, doubling its profits during 2014, strong growth at Tesco Bank and Clydesdale Bank, while TSB has been acquired by Sabadell for a significant premium over its list price,” he points out.
The rapid changes being seen in the sector due to advances in technology and customer expectations pose perhaps the biggest common issue for the sector.
Ewen Fleming, financial services partner at Grant Thornton in Scotland, says the long-established players in particular are under pressure.
“The big banks need to adapt quickly to technology demands.
“Where newer, smaller lenders are more likely to have a clean slate to work with, larger banks will have to overhaul existing and often old and creaking legacy systems and digital platforms,” he says.
“The scale of change required should not be underestimated and heavy investment is essential, particularly to meet regulatory requirements and advance innovative ideas.”
Stephen Phillips, partner at law firm CMS, says the key challenge for both existing players and new entrants is to ensure their services are appropriately geared to their customers. 
“Some remain focused on a more traditional model, investing in high street visibility which is important to their customers, while others are almost exclusively targeting a younger generation where digital accessibility and development of products that enable the easiest and quickest access to funds are the main priority.”
There is some evidence the incumbent banks are responding well to the challenges posed by new competition.
Michael Stoneham, a partner in Brodies’ banking &amp; finance team, says the traditional banks have been quite effective at focusing on customer retention.
“When you combine that with the well-known natural lethargy of customers you might conclude the challengers will have a tough time.
“However, there is still much scope for improving service quality and demonstrating values which inspire confidence and trust.
“The challengers that can achieve this will prosper. Barriers to switching are lowering all the time, and capital seems to be available now to underpin the growth of the challengers.”
Peter Kirk, managing director in Accenture’s financial services team, says although the traditional model of banking is under threat from new competitors, the digital revolution is also opening up new opportunities for the banking industry.
“Digital is not only enabling banks to provide much better, more personalised services and to cut costs dramatically, but it also enables more co-operation between traditional banks and innovative start-ups and technology businesses in a way that can result in totally new business models and revenue streams.”
 
 Financial services – Fund management 
THE changing shape of Scotland’s fund management industry is reflecting a wider polarisation in the market between major global players and niche boutiques.
Mid-tier players are increasingly being squeezed out as the big management groups continue to add scale through acquisitions and more small specialists emerge to serve particular investor needs.
That trend has seen a number of new boutiques established in Scotland in recent years with the latest move seeing Swiss banking group Syz open an asset management and sales operation in Edinburgh in November.
Eric Syz, managing partner of Syz, says the talent pool in Scotland was a key factor in the decision to open a permanent office in Scotland.
“This industry is very much about talented people and if you want to attract them to help you grow you have to have a physical presence where those top people are.”
Gareth Magee, a partner at Scott-Moncrieff, says the rise of boutique fund managers is part of a phenomenon where the “top end is moving up and away and the mid-tier is dropping out”.
He says the increasing popularity of the boutique model is being fuelled by a desire from investors for the people who are advising them to have real “skin in the game”.
“They want a strong, direct connection with the owners. Boutiques can offer this alignment, and share a philosophy across their entire team, in a way the big end of the market can’t.”
Jamie Partridge, head of investment management for Deloitte in Scotland, says growth of the boutiques is leading to diversification and differentiation in the market.
“It’s becoming much more clearly defined.
“Regulatory changes, such as the liberalisation of the pensions market, also present significant opportunities to firms which can occupy niches, react nimbly and specialise in a particular set of products.
“With lower overheads than the larger operators and lighter infrastructure, this could be a good year for these providers.”
But he cautions the barriers to entry into the market are still high.
“Typically, firms need at least &pound;100m in assets under management to make it onto the platforms, which can take time to accrue.
“Changing structures, the evolving role of intermediaries and shifting attitudes towards investment from consumers are leading to seismic shifts in how the Scottish asset management and fund management industries operate.”
Betsy Williamson of Core-Asset Consulting says the changes in the market have significant implications for staffing.
There are now a number of organisations with fewer than 150 employees, some with over 1,500, and little in between.
Williamson says for recruiters, that represents a significant change in finding the right staff.
“It is often underestimated how difficult it is to move from a global company with over 1,500 employees to a smaller, more entrepreneurial firm with only, say, 12 people,” she points out.
“This is because cultural fit – although notoriously difficult to assess – is extremely important when recruiting.
“This is particularly the case for asset managers, where it can be a key factor in the production of long-term outperformance.
“When the market was more graduated, candidates could move more easily between companies. 
“Likewise, for a large organisation there was less risk in recruiting from a mid-sized competitor than a boutique, or for a small company to hire from a mid-sized competitor rather than a large rival.”
