DRIVING tourists around the UK and Ireland can be an expensive business.
So for small group tour specialist Rabbie’s Trail Burners, keeping track of the price of diesel is vital.
“Energy costs have a huge impact on our business and are something we monitor closely,” explains Calum Macnee, director of customer experience at the Edinburgh-based operator.
“In particular, as a transport company, the price of diesel can have a significant impact on profitability.
“With the low oil price currently, things are looking OK for this year.
“But it can be a difficult situation, as we price our tours up to a year in advance with no guarantee of what our fuel bills will be at that time.”
With 66,000 passengers a year, 46 buses and turnover of &pound;7.8m, keeping control of energy costs is a challenge.
Reducing fuel usage overall is difficult because the company is committed to growth.
But developing two key targets for energy use has helped.
These involve measuring the litres of fuel used per passenger for every 100km travelled and the average miles per gallon across the company’s fleet.
“Latest figures show we convincingly beat both targets,” Macnee says.
“Since 2007, we have reduced the fuel used per passenger per 100km travelled by over 20 per cent.
“We cover over 2.5 million kilometres a year and estimate our efficiency improvements save around &pound;50,000 and cut our carbon emissions by 120 tonnes each year.”
To help achieve these targets, over 80 per cent of Rabbie’s drivers have completed the ‘FuelGood’ efficient driving training delivered by Energy Saving Trust.
Its transport review service is funded by Transport Scotland, the national transport agency, and is available free to businesses.
“The single biggest influence on fuel efficiency in any particular vehicle is driving style,” explains John Forbes, a manager in the business and supply chain team for Scotland at Energy Saving Trust.
“Training drivers to drive efficiently, setting miles per gallon targets and then installing telematics to monitor fuel use could realistically help produce a long-term saving of around 13 per cent on fuel.
“Setting CO2 caps on new vehicles, installing speed limiters, using fuel cards and adopting electric or hybrid vehicles could lead to significant cost savings.”
Businesses can qualify for funding to install renewables under the government’s Feed-in Tariff scheme – where you can be paid for the electricity you generate if you install a renewable electricity-generating system like solar panels or a wind turbine.
The government’s Renewable Heat Incentive can also deliver quarterly cash payments over seven years to businesses using an eligible renewable heating technology such as biomass (wood fuelled) boilers; ground to water heat pumps; or solar thermal panels.
Whitmuir Farm in Lamancha in the Scottish Borders is an award-winning 140-acre organic farm that includes a farm shop, restaurant, butchery, community bakery and art gallery.
Owners Pete Ritchie and Heather Anderson used an interest-free loan of &pound;68,000 from the Energy Saving Trust to install solar photovoltaic panels and a solar water heating system.
“Our electricity bill was through the roof,” says Ritchie.
“We couldn’t believe how much we were using in our main building – 450 units per day.
“We get a double whammy because we use most of our power during the day. “Now we’re using around 150 units on a good day, 300 on a bad one.
“Our electricity bill would have been almost &pound;2,000 a month.
“Now it’s about &pound;600 to &pound;700 over the spring and summer, and an estimated &pound;1,100 in winter.”
Whitmuir’s solar water heating provides hot water all day, while the ground source heat pump switches on if there isn’t enough.
With the solar panels generating around 4,000 kWh per month, the farm’s renewables are expected to generate &pound;6,000 of income and &pound;5,000 in savings per year, plus a Renewable Heat Incentive of about &pound;500.
Zero Waste Scotland, the government-backed agency set up to reduce waste, increase energy efficiency and promote responsible water use, points out the Scottish economy could save &pound;2.9bn by implementing resource efficiency measures.
For example, Scotland is currently paying around &pound;1m in landfill tax to dispose of materials which, if recycled, could be worth around &pound;1m to the economy.
One of its initiatives is the Resource Efficiency Pledge, where any business can commit to completing a number of actions within 12 months to reduce their impact on the environment.
Large organisations including hotel chains, supermarkets, banks, central government and local authorities are incentivised to improve their energy efficiency through mandatory government schemes designed to help reduce the UK’s impact on global warming.
Energy costs are the biggest overhead for Bathgate-based Macdonald Hotels &amp; Resorts, which runs 45 hotels across the UK.
It spends around &pound;6.5m a year on energy, including a carbon reduction tax of &pound;440,000.
In 2010 the group introduced an energy saving strategy called ‘Room 15’ to help reduce its electricity and fossil fuel consumption by 15 per cent by the end of 2015.
So far &pound;2m has been invested in energy saving projects that are expected to generate &pound;1m a year in energy savings.
“We are now working on our new ‘Room 20’ targets to further reduce our consumption over the next five-year period to 2020,” explains Gordon Fraser, group finance director and deputy chairman of Macdonald Hotels &amp; Resorts.
“This has included reviewing the operational performance of existing mechanical and electrical plant. For example, our boilers are now serviced more regularly and old boilers were replaced with those ‘A’ rated for energy efficiency.
“We’re also reducing the operational hours of chillers, fans and boilers through control modifications. We’re far advanced into a programme of switching to energy-efficient lighting systems.
“Replacing lighting with LEDs and introducing presence detectors has had a significant impact too.”
The group is also committing major capital investment to replace plant and equipment with alternative solutions such as biomass and combined heat and power, which captures and redeploys waste heat created during electricity generation.
Projects in the pipeline include the installation of a &pound;400,000 biomass boiler at Macdonald Crutherland House Hotel near Glasgow.
This is expected to reduce carbon emissions by 375 tonnes, with an annual saving of &pound;35,000 in the cost of fuel.
Alan Taylor, general manager of the Holiday Inn Glasgow Theatreland on West Nile Street in Glasgow, tells a similar story.
Energy costs account for four per cent of revenues at the venue, which has 113 guest rooms.
“We keep records of our gas, electric and water on a weekly basis,” Taylor explains.
“These are then measured on a monthly per sleeper basis so any fluctuations can be monitored and challenged.
“The hotel is undergoing a programme of replacing most of our lighting with LEDs.
“We’re a quarter of the way through this programme, so the savings aren’t yet tangible.
“We have also just replaced one of our old 20-year-old boilers with three smaller energy efficient boilers.”
The hotel also recycles as much as it can.
“We have replaced two general waste bins with dry mixed recycling bins, which has dramatically reduced what we are putting to landfill.
“This has had a big impact on our waste cost. We also recycle all food waste, glass, light bulbs, toner cartridges, batteries and so on.”
Property consultancy JLL says energy efficiency improvements to offices can improve worker productivity as well as deliver savings.
“Businesses are competing to attract and retain the best talent and a recent study by the World Green Building Council has found a high quality, sustainable office environment is an important factor in maximising employee productivity,” says Niall Robertson, director of building consultancy at JLL.
Robertson suggests imminent changes to the system of Energy Performance Certificates (EPCs) in Scotland will encourage cost-effective building improvements such as: upgrading heating and lighting controls; installing insulation and draught-proofing; fitting insulation jackets to hot water tanks; upgrading to low energy lighting; and replacing boilers.
Introduced by the EU in 2002 as part of a drive to reduce CO2 emissions in the built environment, EPCs are being revised to improve their impact on commercial and residential property.
 IN FOCUS: Energised Environments 
Edinburgh-based environmental consultancy Energised Environments works with clients across sectors including oil and gas, food and drink, industrial processing, manufacturing, and property.
“Energy costs are becoming an increasing proportion of overall operating expenditure for most operators in these sectors,” says managing director Jonny Clark.
“A number of regulatory requirements are also putting energy firmly on the boardroom agenda.”
The firm has helped clients assess the viability of renewable installations such as solar photovoltaics, wind turbines, hydroelectric, anaerobic digestion and biomass.
“Often these technologies can provide over 10 per cent return on investment and, in the case of high energy consumers such as manufacturers, we have seen energy savings for some clients of over &pound;1m a year.”

