WHEN Jen Bremner is having a tough day, she looks at the smiling faces of her children and it lifts her spirits.
For years, Jen suffered from painful fibroids – benign tumours in or around the womb.
She experienced very heavy periods but just thought it was something she had to endure.
 But Jen was diagnosed with stage four leiomyosarcoma, a rare terminal cancer , after doctors removed a cancerous fibroid the size of a football. 
Devastatingly, however, the cancer also spread to her lungs and pelvis.
 Despite all she has been through, the brave mum of two is determined to battle on and will take part in the Morrisons Great Women’s 10k in Glasgow on Sunday, along with 46 runners in Jen’s Team HOPE. 
Yesterday, she met world marathon record holder Paula Radcliffe at  Glasgow’s Pollok Park and was  hailed a hero.
Paula, 41, said: “Jen is an inspiration to women everywhere. She has so much to cope with yet is determined to take part in the race.
“It has been a privilege meeting her and she is a truly remarkable woman.
 “I hope she will go on to inspire hundreds of other women to take that first step and sign up for the Morrisons Great Women’s 10k.” 
Looking back at her illness, Jen, 45, who is mum to Kyle, 11, and Evie, nine, said: “Everything I’d read about fibroids said they were 99.9 per cent benign. The word cancer never entered my mind so I was in total shock when I found out.
“I was very upset but still had hope. Doctors thought the cancer had been contained within the fibroid and wouldn’t have spread. Later, that was shattered when scans revealed secondary cancer.
“I’m trying to stay positive and live for each day. My family are a great support and I have to keep going for my kids.
“Not a lot is known about the disease but I’m determined to raise awareness and funds for research.
“Having Paula lend her support means that hopefully we can get even more people to take part in the 10k.”
By December 2013, Jen had begun suffering haemorrhages and lost a lot of blood. Tests over a couple of months revealed she had a fibroid the size of a 22-week baby in her womb.
Doctors gave her a series of injections to shrink the fibroid before it could be taken out during a planned hysterectomy.
But before her operation, she suffered an extreme haemorrhage  and needed six blood transfusions.
After the hysterectomy, doctors discovered the fibroid had grown to the size of a football but managed to remove it. Jen thought her health problems were over but a week later, she was told tests on the fibroid had revealed it contained a rare form of cancer.
Jen, from Glasgow, said: “I had  undergone the op in May. The next month, I found out I had a  life-limiting cancer then discovered I had secondary cancer. It was utterly devastating. I went through a myriad of emotions and disbelief.
“I was scared of leaving my children and want to be around to see them grow up. It was very hard to accept that might not happen.”
Doctors warned she may only have a year to live but she refuses to give up hope. Jen added: “I’m still young and it depends on how I respond to treatment. Not everyone is the same. There are only four chemotherapy drugs that work for this type of cancer.
“So far, I’ve tried two without much success and, next week, I’ll start on the third. I hope it works and contains the cancer to give me more time.”
Jen admits the hardest part of her diagnosis was planning what she would say if her two young children asked if she was going to die.
The couple had worked out how  to explain that Jen had cancer but knew the youngsters were bound to ask the most difficult question of all – if that meant she was going to die.
Former account manager and childminder Jen said: “We told  the kids quite early on and were advised it was better to be open  with them.
Along with her graphic designer husband Brem, 50, she watched videos to research what to say and got help from a psychologist from the  Maggie’s Centre in Glasgow.
Jen said: “They haven’t been told a timeline. All we’ve told them is that we can’t make it go away. I’ll die sooner than I want but we’re working hard with the doctors to make that as far in the future as possible.
“We were trying not to frighten them too much and make sure they understood.
“There were lots of tears but they’ve taken it on board and now we can talk about it openly as a family.”
 Jen set up a group on Facebook to keep her friends up to date with her progress so she didn’t have to keep retelling her news. She then launched Team HOPE – Have Only Positive Expectations. 
Jen found the image and mantra of HOPE online and really liked the sentiment, so created a group for her family, friends and colleagues.
Impressed with the help and support at the Beatson West of  Scotland Cancer Centre, Jen decided to raise money for charity.
She added: “As well as raising awareness about the disease, I also want to give something back.
“So far, we’ve managed to raise more than &pound;20,000 through events and I’m hoping to raise more than &pound;2000 completing the 10k.
“I’m starting my next round of chemotherapy the day after the race and crossing the finish line will feel like a huge achievement.
“I just have to hope that this regime will have some positive impact.
“The doctors say, ‘it’s not curable but treatable’. Although it hasn’t been treated yet, I guess what we’re aiming for is to find the drug that works for my tumours so we can either maintain them at the size they are or shrink them and stop new ones.
“I’m trying to live a day at a time and create happy memories for all  of us.”
● To donate, visit www.justgiving.com/Jennifer-Bremner1/

