THE lights are coming down at Loch Lomond. The temporary traffic lights that were erected more than 30 years ago have finally had their day.
They have stood guard for all that time at the poetically named Pulpit Rock to stop traffic playing chicken at a spot that was so narrow only one vehicle could pass at a time.
Today, they have been superseded by a new multi-million pound viaduct that was two years in the creation and is a remarkable piece of engineering that hangs out over the loch on one of the most picturesque bends on the A82 road to Crianlarich.
The A82 is the main road link from Glasgow and the central belt to Fort William, the Highlands and the Western Isles.
The cones were finally removed last week, with Road Record in attendance in a beautiful new Kia Sorento courtesy of Arnold Clark, and the new two-lane road quietly opened to the public.
 

Quietly, because the works were almost a year overdue. It was no fault of man but of nature – appalling winter weather conditions brought men and machinery to a standstill. Water cascaded down the rocks at the side of the road and then froze. Nothing could move.
The location of the site at a precarious bend made access difficult every day, its size constrained the men and the plant they used there, and the terrain itself was a challenge.
Transport Scotland project manager Dominic Murphy, who has been with the scheme almost from its inception in 2006, is a man with Pulpit Rock etched on his spine.
At last, he seems satisfied that his baby will finally stand on its own five piles.
“For me, the best moment was when the girders were placed under the deck,” he recalled.
“When they finally arrived and were lifted into place, that was a big moment.
“They were brought in by road and we had to close the road overnight to accommodate them. We had considered bringing them in by barge but that was too problematic.
“We closed the road six times overnight to get them in but 100 times in all during the work. The alternative was to close the road completely for three months, which would have meant a 50 to 60-mile detour to get to Crianlarich.”
It is a glorious piece of Scotland he has been working in for the last two years.
On the one side, the large and eerie Pulpit Rock, on the other, the vast watery expanse of Loch Lomond and, in the middle, this small man-made construction of Tarmac and steel.
It is a privilege – not allowed to many – to be able to stand and look along its elegant length and appreciate the beauty of this construction in such a stunning environment, despite the Loch Lomond weather window having closed down on us.
“Yesterday, the loch was like a millpond, the sun was out and the view from the south end of the viaduct was right through to the snow capped hills,” said engineer David Webster. “It was absolutely perfect. Today, it’s raining again.”
He will celebrate the end of this marathon by taking his wife on holiday to Rome, where there are many more viaducts but much more ancient.

This 21st century viaduct is a five-pile, six-span, cantilevered bridge with an abutment at either end. Each pile is 1.3 metres in diameter and the deepest one has been buried 14 metres below the bed of the loch.
The viaduct snakes 400 metres in length and hangs five metres out over the water for 185 metres. It rises 10 metres above Loch Lomond.
There is a guardrail on the loch side, with a special motorbike rail and a walkway that can be extended as a path or a cycle track.
The viaduct has also been future proofed so that if it needs to be widened again that can be easily accomplished.
At its peak, 50 men worked on this small piece of road – and none of them fell in the loch, although there was always a small boat on standby, just in case.
In the summer, the road carries 5000 vehicles daily, including logging trucks, motorhomes, caravans, Asda lorries and Lochs and Glens coaches.
They thunder along this narrow strip heading up from Tarbet to Ardlui and on to Crianlarich, with vital supplies for so many of Scotland’s outlying communities. Right from the beginning, sensitivity because of its location was a priority and other options such as a tunnel, a retaining wall and a longer viaduct were all rejected in favour of the small piece of engineering brilliance now in place.
“It was reckoned to be the most aesthetically and environmentally pleasing option because of its position and it is quite unobtrusive,” said Dominic.
 

“Now it has opened, I expect very few people will realise they are going over a new bridge at all.”
Just in passing, the team also carried out a 15-metre rock cut at the south end of the new piece of road.
Specialist teams using only rope access and secure anchors cut away part of the rock face to make it safer.
And the biggest challenge? Dominic grimaces remembering one night last summer when the girders arrived.
“The midges,” he confessed. “They were brutal.”
“We used midge nets over our faces and Skin So Soft, which actually worked.”
There you have it. Not only skilled but also the best smelling team of construction workers in Scotland.
PULPIT Rock was so called because Christian services were held there in the early 19th century.
It is a large, monumental piece of stone that stands alone in a clearing at the side of the road.
Visitors travelling up the lochside could be forgiven for missing it – especially beforehand – as they concentrated wholly on watching the narrow road ahead.
It was brought into use when grumpy locals – mostly shepherds – in Arrochar parish in 1825 complained about the eight-mile walk they had to make for their Sabbath devotions.
They said it was too far, so an outdoor church was created for them at Pulpit Rock.
A ledge was hewn out of the massive stone on which the minister could stand and preach to his congregation and it is still visible today.
The rock has been made a scheduled monument and can be seen quite clearly from the road.
