THE blockbuster live version of Still Game has missed out on a Scottish theatre nomination – because it is not Scottish enough.
A string of high-brow productions have been shortlisted for gongs at the Critics’ Awards for Theatre in Scotland (CATS) but the popular stage show starring Jack and Victor has been overlooked because it was not produced in this country.
 Greg Hemphill, who plays Victor tweeted: “Written by Scots, performed by Scots, in Scotland. Not Scottish. Hahaha! #stillgamelive.”
 
Written by Scots, performed by Scots, in Scotland. Not Scottish. Hahaha! #stillgamelive

The revival of the TV show on stage last year raked in &pound;6million in box office takings and delighted 210,000 fans over 21 shows – after originally booking Glasgow’s SECC for just four nights.
But despite its status as a Scottish box office juggernaut, Still Game appears nowhere in the latest industry awards shortlist.
The hit comedy, set in the fictional town of Craiglang, has its roots in west of Scotland culture – old codgers, high rises, local shops, community spirit and the all-important local pub.
The box office returns achieved by stars Hemphill and Ford Kiernan can only be dreamed of by Edinburgh’s Royal Lyceum Theatre, which dominates this year’s CATS shortlist.

Productions at the Edinburgh venue, which is part-funded by Creative Scotland, are up for 17 gongs.
In the Best New Play category, The Venetian Twins and Kill Johnny Glendenning are nominated.
In Best production there are the Caucasian Chalk Circle and Faith Healer.
Royal Lyceum Theatre shows also received nominations in the Best Male/Female Performance categories.
Three out of the four nominations for the Best Ensemble have nods to the Royal Lyceum and it is the same in the Best Director category.
The Royal Lyceum, now in its 50th year, has had its Creative Scotland funding cut by 17.5 per cent.


Launching the nominations yesterday, CATS said: “Edinburgh’s Royal Lyceum Theatre heads the nominations.
“The shortlist recognises six different Royal Lyceum productions, which appear in eight of the 10 award categories. “
But there is not a mention of Still Game’s Jack, Victor, Winston, Naveed, Isa, Boaby or Tam.
Cats said: “Still Game was not produced in Scotland therefore it does not meet the key criterion for the Critics’ Awards.
“It has to be produced in Scotland and Still Game was not produced in Scotland, it was produced in London.
“It’s a real shame, it was a great event, and we all love Greg and Ford to pieces.
“There were 196 productions that met the criteria, some were shortlisted and some weren’t.
“Every piece of theatre that was on any stage across the whole of Scotland is looked at and assessed against the criteria, and then if they match the criteria, they go into discussion in terms of who gets shortlisted.”
Try your hand at our daily entertainment quiz:

