A Dumfries mum who was sectioned under the mental health act said her brain
needed “rebooting”.
Ros Nash, from Marchmount, spent three weeks on a psychiatric ward after being diagnosed with stress-induced psychosis in December 2010.
Now the former Dumfries Academy pupil has recalled her experience to highlight the importance of Mental Health Awareness Week which runs until Sunday.
The 38-year-old said: “I was a magazine editor at the time and in the week before I went into hospital I’d been working really hard.
“I’d barely slept. I remember thinking, if I can just make it to Christmas, I’ll be okay. But I didn’t make it.
“Without sleep, my brain stopped functioning properly. I was in a pretty bad way when I was admitted into hospital.
“I’d been taken to Glasgow but no matter how many times this was explained to me, I found it difficult to remember what was happening.
“I kept thinking the hospital I was in wasn’t real, that the doctors and nurses were just actors who were all in on a big joke.”
Family who visited Ros said it was like talking to someone suffering dementia.
Ros said: “I had the odd moment of lucidity, where I was horrified by what was happening around me, but during my stay on the ward I also said and thought some really weird things.
“I thought I was a terrible abusive person who was being punished for committing a heinous crime. I thought I’d had an affair. I thought my husband was gay.
“I thought someone in my family had died and I hadn’t even noticed. I thought I was a boy who was just pretending to be a girl.
“I even thought I was mixed up with Tommy Sheridan’s perjury trial, which was a huge story in the media at the time. I believed it was my fault he was in jail. Of course, none of these things were true.
“When I got better and went home I felt fragile for a while.”
Now the mum-of-one has written about her mental health struggle in a book called What’s Up With Ros?
It was husband Rab who suggested she write about her experiences in a bid to helping others.
She said: “It made sense to me, lots of people had been through something similar but most of them wouldn’t feel comfortable writing about it.
“Once I felt stronger I started writing down my memories of the hospital. If we can shine a light on mental health by encouraging people to be open about their problems, we can start to take the fear away.
“I would absolutely love it if we could start to think of the brain as an organ just like any other organ in the human body. Brains play up, like kidneys and hearts and ears do. I think of my brain as a computer that needed rebooting.
“I want to prove that life goes on. I had a nasty experience but since then I’ve travelled around Europe in a campervan, had a baby girl and written a book.
“I am only just back from maternity leave at the moment but I’m really enjoying being a mum to Zoe. She’s probably changed me as much as the hospital experience.”
Now she tries to keep the work-life balance in check, tries not to worry so much, or at least to be open about her worries, rather than bottling things up.
She added: “I’m learning to be less of a perfectionist too. And every now and then I remind myself to appreciate ordinary everyday stuff, because when that’s taken away from you for a while, you realise how amazing normal life actually is.”
 Paperback and Kindle versions of the book are available now. 
