A DNA profile matching murder accused William Paterson was found on the handle of a bag that a gun was found in, a court heard.
 A murder trial heard that the probability of it being anyone other than Paterson's is one in a billion.  Forensic scientist Marie Campbell told the High Court in Glasgow that a Tesco carrier bag found in shrubbery in Coatbridge was forensically analysed. 
The court was told the bag had a gun in it when it was discovered on January 26, 2010 by council workmen clearing the area.
Mrs Campbell said that she was able to get a DNA profile from the handle of the bag that matched the profile of Paterson.
 The forensic scientist told the jury that from a sample taken from the grip plate on the handle of one of the guns, was analysed and a DNA match was found for the profile of former murder accused Ross Monaghan. 
 Mrs Campbell was giving evidence at the trial of 35-year-old Paterson who denies murdering Kevin 'Gerbil' Carroll on January 13, 2010 at the car park of Asda, Robroyston. 
 It is claimed - while masked and acting with others - he repeatedly discharged loaded handguns at 29 year-old Carroll shooting him on the head and body. 
 Paterson is also accused of attempting to defeat the ends of justice. 
 The indictment claims that on January 23 2010 he boarded a flight from Glasgow to Malaga &quot;to avoid arrest, prosecution and conviction&quot;. 
 Paterson further faces a number of firearms charges as well as another accusation of attempting to defeat the ends of justice. 
 He is also said to have been involved in the reset of a car or an alternative accusation of being in the vehicle knowing it had been taken without consent. 
 The court heard that in 2010 Mrs Campbell prepared a report after analysing items and comparing them with a number of reference samples including Ross Monaghan. 
 She told the jury that the DNA profile on the Tesco bag at that time was called &quot;male A&quot; until they found out who the profile belonged to. 
 Last year it was known that &quot;male A&quot; was Paterson. 
 Advocate depute Iain McSporran, prosecuting, asked about one of the samples taken from a black handgun. 
 He asked what her findings were about that sample. 
 She said: &quot;The DNA profile contained DNA from at least three people, the majority of the DNA matched the profile of Ross Monaghan.&quot; 
 Mrs Campbell said that &quot;male A&quot; and the other reference samples were eliminated. 
 The jury were told that she couldn't &quot;categorically&quot; say that that it would be as a result of Mr Monaghan handling the gun and that it &quot;could well be that it is secondary transfer&quot;. 
 She also said that the probability of it being anyone other than Mr Monaghan is estimated as being more than one billion. 
 Mrs Campbell said items were analysed and a report was compiled last year using a DNA sample from Paterson. 
 Tape was used to take a sample from the handle of a Tesco bag that a gun was found in, in January 2010 behind a library in Coatbridge. 
 The expert witness told the court: &quot;The taping from the handle of the Tesco carrier bag was analysed and the DNA profile obtained matched the DNA profile of William Paterson.&quot; 
 Defence lawyer Des Finnieston asked about a stab proof vest that was examined. 
 It was put to her that the DNA profiles of Paterson and Mr Monaghan were eliminated and she said &quot;That's correct.&quot; 
 In relation to the Tesco bag that was examined Mr Finnieston asked: &quot;There's no way of telling the date and time or how long the DNA had been on it?&quot; 
 Mrs Campbell said: &quot;That's correct.&quot; 
 Patrick McAuley, 51, a gardener for North Lanarkshire council told of finding two guns in shrubbery he was working at, in January 2010. 
 He told the court he and colleagues had been asked to clear the area of debris when he made the discovery under some bricks. 
 Mr McSporran asked what the first thing he saw was and if he knew straight away they were guns.  Mr McAuley said: &quot;No, it was just a plastic bag, it was too clean, it was perfectly clean. It was under the bricks.&quot; 
 He claimed he lifted the bricks and bag and that &quot;it had a fair bit of weight&quot; in it. 
 He said inside the bag he found the guns were each wrapped in another plastic bag. 
 Asked how he discovered was in the bag he said he dropped them out the bag but &quot;took no further part in opening them&quot;. 
 Mr McAuley said: &quot;A couple of fellows were playing about.&quot; He described them as &quot;like boys with toys&quot; and said they were &quot;just daft laddies&quot;. 
 He told the court he contacted the police who arrived shortly afterwards. 
 Paterson denies the charges and incriminates six other people including Ross Monaghan. 
 He has lodged a special defence of alibi claiming he was at an address in Cumbernauld at the time of the shooting. 
 The trial before judge Lord Armstrong continues. 
Try your hand at our news quiz


