A DNA profile matching the man accused of murdering Kevin &quot;Gerbil&quot; Carroll was found on a carrier bag in which a gun was discovered, a court has heard.
Scientist Marie Campbell told the High Court in Glasgow she analysed the bag found in Coatbridge on 26 January 2010.
She said the probability of the DNA being anyone other than William Paterson's was one in a billion.
Mr Paterson, 35, denies fatally shooting 29-year-old gangland figure Mr Carroll in Glasgow on 13 January 2010.
Mr Carroll was killed at the Asda car park in the city's Robroyston area.
The court heard that a bag containing guns, which had been wrapped in other bags, was found in shrubbery behind a library in Coatbridge by a council gardener in January 2010.
Forensic scientist Mrs Campbell prepared a report after analysing the items and comparing them with a number of reference samples including former murder accused Ross Monaghan. 
She told the jury that from a sample, taken from the grip plate on the handle of one of the guns, was analysed and a DNA match was found for the profile of Mr Monaghan. 
She also told the jury that the DNA profile on a Tesco carrier bag, which contained a gun, had initially been called &quot;male A&quot;. 
Last year it was known that &quot;male A&quot; was Mr Paterson. 
Advocate depute Iain McSporran, prosecuting, asked about one of the samples taken from a black handgun. 
He asked what her findings were about that sample. 
She said: &quot;The DNA profile contained DNA from at least three people, the majority of the DNA matched the profile of Ross Monaghan.&quot; 
Mrs Campbell said that &quot;male A&quot; and the other reference samples were eliminated. 
The jury were told that she could not &quot;categorically&quot; say that it would be as a result of Mr Monaghan handling the gun and that it &quot;could well be that it is secondary transfer&quot;. 
She also said that the probability of it being anyone other than Mr Monaghan is estimated as being more than one billion to one. 
Mrs Campbell said items were analysed and a report was compiled last year using a DNA sample from Mr Paterson. 
The expert witness told the court: &quot;The taping from the handle of the Tesco carrier bag was analysed and the DNA profile obtained matched the DNA profile of William Paterson.&quot; 
Defence lawyer Des Finnieston asked about a stab proof vest that was examined. 
It was put to her that the DNA profiles of Mr Paterson and Mr Monaghan were eliminated and she said &quot;That's correct.&quot; 
In relation to the Tesco bag that was examined Mr Finnieston asked: &quot;There's no way of telling the date and time or how long the DNA had been on it?&quot; 
Mrs Campbell said: &quot;That's correct.&quot; 
Mr Paterson denies the charges and incriminates six other people including Ross Monaghan. 
He has lodged a special defence of alibi claiming he was at an address in Cumbernauld at the time of the shooting. 
The trial before judge Lord Armstrong continues.
