ONE of Scotland’s most iconic nightclubs is facing closure amid police fears about drugs and disorder at the venue.
The controversial Arches nightclub will be permanently shut down following complaints by Police Scotland that there were “potentially lethal and profound consequences” unless problems were addressed.
A meeting of Glasgow’s licensing board yesterday ruled to close the nightclub element of the venue, which also boasts a major arts centre.
Its licence can now only operate up until 12pm rather than 3am, police said.
The nightclub came under fire in March after 26 people were reported for drugs and alcohol-related offences in one night while a woman also collapsed outside the venue after a dance event was marred by trouble.
Police solicitor Duncan Campbell said: “It cannot be stressed enough the potentially lethal consequences that may arise from this situation should these matters not be addressed.
“By far these premises pose the greatest concern to Glasgow Division and the biggest drain on police resources. Due to the culture of drug misuse associated with the premises, the licence holder is unable to operate the premises in a suitable manner.
“The requirement to provide such regular attendance to the premises was indicated by the Scottish Ambulance Service as being a significant drain on their resources.”
Lawyers for the venue argued that almost all of the police complaints stemmed from staff alerting them to drug-taking - and their dutiful actions were now being used to undermine The Arches.
Board chairman Bill Butler said the venue would be forced to close at midnight rather than 3am - a move than would effectively call time on the club operation.
The Arches said the move meant the likely closure of the rest of the operation.
Mark Anderson, executive director of The Arches, said: “It’s not only a bad day for the Arches but the portents don’t look look good for the wider licensed trade.”
Chief Inspector Mark Sutherland, Area Commander for Glasgow City Centre said where breaches of licensing legislation take place the police “will take appropriate action and record and report this to the Local Authority”.
Try your hand at our news quiz

