A champagne-swilling serial rapist was finally brought to justice today as he was convicted of a string of sex attacks and brutal assaults on three girlfriends.
Depraved Zach Rankin, 23, charmed the young women - and a girl aged just 15 - with lavish dates before subjecting them to vicious sexual ordeals which left them terrified.
Posh boy Rankin was so confident his secret would never be uncovered he recorded a vile song which was uploaded to YouTube, which saw him singing about degrading women.
But today he was behind bars after a jury found him guilty of five rapes and six assaults on his three victims.
 

And the police officers who investigated the harrowing case have told the Record how “suave” Rankin duped his victims before turning on them just weeks into the relationships.
During the five-day trial at the High Court in Livingston, one victim, who he brutally raped twice, revealed how he had told her he liked “playing God” before choking the 24-year-old during sex sessions in a Glasgow flat.
She said Rankin - who ran his own telemarketing and sales businesses - treated her “like a piece of meat” and said she had no choice but to submit to his demands for sex up to five times a day.
The woman also told how she woke up to find him having sex with her while he was watching porn on his mobile phone. When she told him “that’s rape” he refused to stop, she said.
The court heard how Rankin would use silk scarves, leather belts and other ligatures around the women’s necks to choke them in bed.
The victim said: “I remember him actually saying to me at one point that he liked the look on my face when I look like I’m about to stop breathing.
“He definitely enjoyed that - I could see it in his face as I started to splutter and choke.
“I tried to pull his fingers and his hands from around my neck but he was pretty strong. A lot of the time I knew it was pretty pointless trying to fight or battle back.
“I think: ‘How can I let myself get to this point that I’m so scared of somebody that I can’t even tell him to stop hurting me and can’t even tell someone I trust what’s happening?’”
Rankin frequently called all three women “sluts” and other abusive names and often flew into violent rages without warning, slapping, punching and kicking his sexual partners, the jury heard.
His youngest victim, now a 20-year-old student, said she was 15 when she first started having unlawful sex with Rankin, her first real boyfriend.
But she said their relationship quickly turned abusive and when she tried to dump him during a camping trip at South Beach, Troon, in Ayrshire in 2010, he raped her in the tent.
A 24-year-old, mixed-race, single mum said he slapped her and spat on her face before raping her on two occasions in flats in Pollokshields, Glasgow during their turbulent relationship.
All the offences were committed between January 2010 and May 2014.
Rankin had denied all the charges and claimed the females consented to sex. He said they had lied because they all had a grudge against him.
But during his evidence he boasted of being “well endowed” and bragged to the jury that he was “a connoisseur of porn”.
In his bizarre YouTube video, uploaded in 2014, guitar playing Rankin sings: “Sl*ts just wanna be sl*ts and that’s fine ‘cause I’m here to f*ck.” The full content of the lyrics are too vile to be repeated.
Rankin, who was brought up the west end of Glasgow, came to the attention of the police in July last year when a support group helping one of his ex partners reported him as “high risk”.
Over several months, Detective Constable Nicola McCafferty pieced together Rankin’s tangled love life and discovered the two other victims.
She said: “He has pretty much been solidly in relationships since his teens.
“Charming is how he was described by his victims. Tall, dark and handsome.
“These girls were all young and impressionable. They said he was a great partner for the first few weeks before becoming very controlling, very dominating.
“He would control the finances and was jealous and encouraged them to not have many other friends. They became quite isolated.
“These are three individuals who are very different but there were similarities with all three accounts.
“They are all very personable girls and very attractive, small and slight girls.
“He was described by witnesses as very suave. When he goes out he is always wearing suits and smartly dressed.
“It was always a champagne night out. He talked a good game at first.
“Despite his own jealousy, infidelity was a pattern with him as well and there was overlaps in the relationships.
“The impact on them has been huge.”
Detective Inspector Gillian McKay, who led the investigation, said Rankin’s crimes should be a reminder to the public that domestic abusers come in many forms.
She said: “He has an image that has been attractive to young girls and he has reeled them in and then subjected them to horrendous abuse.
“We deal with many known domestic abusers who might be older and well documented for the abuse. He is pretty young to have been identified at that age as being high risk, with multiple partners.
“This case shows domestic abuse spans all walks of life and crosses every part of society. People have an image of a domestic abuser and it could be the person who lives next door, the friend, someone of all professions.
“We may never have come across this man had our partner agency not constituted him as high risk but it is the bravery of the victims that has got this result and they have been through a process which has been extremely difficult.”
Rankin has been in custody since his arrest on November 14 last year.
In addition to the five rape charges, the jury also convicted him of six vicious assaults on two of the girls and a further charge of racially abusing the single mum.
Judge Lord Bannatyne called for background reports and deferred sentence on Rankin until next month at the High Court in Edinburgh.
He also ordered Rankin’s name to be added to the Sex Offenders Register.
