  Gardyne 58′  Boyce 85′  
  De Lima Tagliapietra 27′  
 Liam Boyce's goal gave Ross County victory over Hamilton Academical and sealed the Dingwall side's Scottish Premiership safety. 
 Lucas Tagliapietra headed in Ali Crawford's corner to give Hamilton a first-half lead. 
 County recovered in the second period with Michael Gardyne equalising. 
 And, despite losing Filip Kiss to a red card, the hosts moved ahead when Boyce struck and that ensured they will not face a relegation play-off. 
 The victory, coupled with Motherwell's defeat by St Mirren, means County will finish above second bottom. 
 At one stage in this campaign Jim McIntyre's side seemed favourites for relegation but a sequence of positive results, including a nine-game unbeaten run has ensured top-flight status. 
 The afternoon started brightly for County in terrible early conditions. Raffaele De Vita's low cross was met powerfully by Craig Curran only for McGovern to palm away. 
 As the weather improved, County started to offer more offensively with Gardyne wriggling away from defenders before firing narrowly wide. 
 But Hamilton went ahead when Lucas rose to meet Crawford's delivery and powered a header past Antonio Reguero. 
 The momentum was clearly with the visitors but Jamie Reckord's delivery almost provided an equaliser, Curran somehow missing the target when he slid in at the back post. 
 Gardyne then went down in the box after a Kieran MacDonald challenge, but referee Bobby Madden waved his claims away. 
 Half-time seemed to give Ross County time to regroup and they started the second period on the front foot. 
 Tony Dingwall replaced Curran and his energy helped McIntyre's side trouble Hamilton more directly. 
 Martin Woods fired in a deflected effort which McGovern tipped over the bar. From the resulting corner the ball found its way to Gardyne, who smashed a sweet left-foot effort past McGovern. 
 Scores from Motherwell's game and fellow strugglers Kilmarnock's upcoming win over Partick Thistle were filtering through to Victoria Park and tension increased with each passing minute. 
 Eamonn Brophy shot narrowly over and Darian Mackinnon had a header easily gathered as the visitors tried to regain supremacy. 
 And the ensuing drama that unfolded was extraordinary. Filip Kiss, playing at right-back, was inexplicably sent off leaving County a man down as they chased a vital winner. 
 McIntyre could clearly be heard asking &quot;what happened?&quot; as Kiss left the field. 
 As home supporters looked on through cracked fingers, County scored what proved to be the goal that secured their Premiership status. 
 A corner broke into the path of Boyce and the Northern Irishman seized on his opportunity to drill home. 
 The stadium erupted and all ears turned to what was happening elsewhere. Premature celebrations began with many inside the stadium believing Motherwell had drawn with St Mirren. 
 When news arrived that Motherwell had lost, there was unrestrained joy for the home crowd as they danced on the pitch, delighted that their side had finally seen off the threat of relegation. 
    Full Time  Match ends, Ross County 2, Hamilton Academical 1. 
    Full Time  Second Half ends, Ross County 2, Hamilton Academical 1. 
 Foul by Liam Boyce (Ross County). 
 Grant Gillespie (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Jackson Irvine. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Hamilton Academical. Nigel Hasselbaink replaces Darian MacKinnon. 
 Tony Dingwall (Ross County) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Jesus Garcia Tena (Hamilton Academical). 
  Substitution  Substitution, Hamilton Academical. Greg Docherty replaces Louis Longridge. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Ross County. Richard Brittain replaces Michael Gardyne. 
  Goal!  Goal! Ross County 2, Hamilton Academical 1. Liam Boyce (Ross County) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom right corner. 
 Corner, Ross County. Conceded by Darian MacKinnon. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Ross County. Rocco Quinn replaces Raffaele De Vita. 
 Michael Gardyne (Ross County) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Kieran MacDonald (Hamilton Academical). 
  Substitution  Substitution, Hamilton Academical. Jason Scotland replaces Eamonn Brophy. 
  Dismissal  Filip Kiss (Ross County) is shown the red card for fighting. 
  Booking  Raffaele De Vita (Ross County) is shown the yellow card. 
 Corner, Ross County. Conceded by Jesus Garcia Tena. 
 Corner, Ross County. Conceded by Louis Longridge. 
  Booking  Lucas (Hamilton Academical) is shown the yellow card. 
 Liam Boyce (Ross County) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Lucas (Hamilton Academical). 
 Attempt saved. Raffaele De Vita (Ross County) right footed shot from a difficult angle on the left is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Attempt missed. Lucas (Hamilton Academical) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Paul Quinn. 
 Liam Boyce (Ross County) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Jesus Garcia Tena (Hamilton Academical). 
 Attempt saved. Darian MacKinnon (Hamilton Academical) header from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Attempt missed. Eamonn Brophy (Hamilton Academical) right footed shot from outside the box is too high. 
 Attempt missed. Jackson Irvine (Ross County) left footed shot from outside the box misses to the left. 
 Jackson Irvine (Ross County) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Darian MacKinnon (Hamilton Academical). 
 Foul by Martin Woods (Ross County). 
 Dougie Imrie (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Attempt missed. Dougie Imrie (Hamilton Academical) left footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high. 
  Goal!  Goal! Ross County 1, Hamilton Academical 1. Michael Gardyne (Ross County) left footed shot from outside the box to the bottom left corner. 
 Corner, Ross County. Conceded by Darren Lyon. 
 Corner, Ross County. Conceded by Michael McGovern. 
 Corner, Ross County. Conceded by Darian MacKinnon. 
  Booking  Darian MacKinnon (Hamilton Academical) is shown the yellow card. 
 Foul by Darian MacKinnon (Hamilton Academical). 
 Michael Gardyne (Ross County) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Ross County. Tony Dingwall replaces Craig Curran. 
 Foul by Lucas (Hamilton Academical). 
 Craig Curran (Ross County) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
   Second Half begins Ross County 0, Hamilton Academical 1. 
    Half Time  First Half ends, Ross County 0, Hamilton Academical 1. 
 Foul by Darian MacKinnon (Hamilton Academical). 
 Jackson Irvine (Ross County) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Attempt missed. Michael Gardyne (Ross County) right footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Foul by Grant Gillespie (Hamilton Academical). 
 Liam Boyce (Ross County) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Martin Woods (Ross County) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Darian MacKinnon (Hamilton Academical). 
 Attempt missed. Jesus Garcia Tena (Hamilton Academical) header from the centre of the box misses to the left. 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Jamie Reckord. 
  Goal!  Goal! Ross County 0, Hamilton Academical 1. Lucas (Hamilton Academical) header from the centre of the box to the bottom right corner. Assisted by Ali Crawford. 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Marcus Fraser. 
 Darian MacKinnon (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Craig Curran (Ross County). 
 Eamonn Brophy (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Marcus Fraser (Ross County). 
 Attempt missed. Jamie Reckord (Ross County) left footed shot from outside the box misses to the left. 
 Corner, Ross County. Conceded by Jesus Garcia Tena. 
 Corner, Ross County. Conceded by Jesus Garcia Tena. 
 Attempt missed. Michael Gardyne (Ross County) left footed shot from the left side of the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Dougie Imrie (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Jamie Reckord (Ross County). 
  Booking  Jamie Reckord (Ross County) is shown the yellow card. 
 Dougie Imrie (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Jamie Reckord (Ross County). 
 Foul by Lucas (Hamilton Academical). 
 Liam Boyce (Ross County) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt saved. Ali Crawford (Hamilton Academical) right footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the bottom right corner. 
 Attempt saved. Jesus Garcia Tena (Hamilton Academical) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Martin Woods. 
 Foul by Darian MacKinnon (Hamilton Academical). 
 Michael Gardyne (Ross County) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Attempt missed. Lucas (Hamilton Academical) right footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Martin Woods. 
 Attempt missed. Lucas (Hamilton Academical) header from the centre of the box misses to the left. 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Marcus Fraser. 
 Corner, Ross County. Conceded by Michael McGovern. 
 Filip Kiss (Ross County) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Darian MacKinnon (Hamilton Academical). 
   First Half begins. 
 Lineups are announced and players are warming up. 
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
