IN a glass case in  the Royal College of  Physicians in Glasgow sit three instruments that look as if they  could have come from  a car thief’s tool kit.
Two are metal with pointed ends. The other is a loop of whalebone on a handle.
But they are not weapons used to steal motors – these gruesome instruments were once used by doctors to  deliver stillborn babies.
And curator Carol Parry looks apologetic.
She said: “These are instruments from the turn of the 19th Century when it was all pretty horrific.
“They make us so grateful for modern advances. Infant and maternal mortality was so high, it was very scary having babies then. There was no anaesthesia. One doesn’t like to think about it.”
 Happily, technology, hygiene and the NHS have changed childbirth beyond  all recognition since those days. Infant mortality is at  an all-time low of 4.2 infant deaths per 1000 live births – the lowest rate on record. In 1860, when records begin, it was 150 out of every 1000. 
The tools form part of exhibition Great Expectations, which marks 100 years since midwives were registered and regulated by law in Scotland.
 Midwife-turned-lecturer Joan Cameron, from Dundee University, has been looking back at the changes in childbirth since she was a trainee at Glasgow’s Royal Infirmary in the 1980s. 
In those days, the infant mortality rate was 11.1 out of every 1000 births, 62 per cent higher than it is today.
 And the way women have babies today – optional birthing pools and beanbags, a menu of pain relief if required – is, she  says, all down to midwives. 
It was their research that put an end  to the unnecessary procedures and the over-enthusiastic use of technology  that made the hospital visit as terrifying  a prospect as the urge to push.
Much of this work, into breastfeeding and birth positions, was done in Scotland.
Joan, 57, said: “Midwives investigated  the use of enemas in labour, which women absolutely hated. And midwives found they really didn’t do much good.”
Enemas are now almost unheard of. That’s not the only change. Instead of lying down, midwives now use gravity and position women in labour into more positions than the karma sutra.
Episiotomies, cuts in the perineum –  routine in the 80s – are now quite rare.
There have been other changes.
 Joan said: “If you gave birth at the Royal Maternity Hospital in Glasgow at the beginning of the 80s, a midwife would say, ‘Yes, you’re in labour’ or ‘No, you’re not’. 
“If you were, you went to the first-stage ward where you saw a different midwife. Just as you were about to give birth you were whisked through to the second-stage room, where you saw yet another midwife.
“You would be on a bed, in labour, and someone would say, ‘Can you just hop onto this narrow and hard delivery table?’.”
It was midwives who lobbied for the delivery tables to be replaced with beds. They also pushed for a system where women do not see a succession of different staff but have one or two people looking after them throughout their pregnancy  and birth. They are still working on that.
A lot of the changes over the last 40 years are, she says, a reaction against the medicalisation of birth in the 50s.
Joan added: “We tend to look at that very negatively but we forget that life in the 50s could be gruesome. Lots of homes didn’t have inside toilets and baths.”
This was the era when matron was matron and nurses wore caps that signified their pay grade. The stars of the Great Expectations exhibition are three dolls with outfits crafted by a Royal Infirmary nurse, Miss HJ Chalmers, in the 50s.
Carol said: “They were made these specifically to show the different uniforms  of pupil midwife, staff midwife  and sister.”
It was an exciting time to be in the baby birthing business. At that time, Ian Donald, professor of midwifery at Glasgow University, developed ultrasound from technology he saw at the shipyards on the Clyde. It was now possible to see an unborn baby on camera and listen to its heartbeat.
But these developments, Joan says, led to the idea of “medical heroism”.
She added: “It was thought, we can look inside the uterus, so let’s do lots of ultrasounds and that routine electronic fetal monitoring must be a good thing.”
The current thinking is that many of a midwife’s most important tools do not need a plug. Choice, respect and a friendly face are just as important as anything with an LED screen. In fact, the range of choices a midwife can offer – bed or yoga ball, diamorphine or aromatherapy oil –  is one of the biggest changes Joan has seen.
She said: “When I was training in Glasgow, it was, ‘When would you like your epidural?’. Then I spent most of my working life in the east end of London where there were virtually no epidurals. They were used only if they thought you needed a C-section. It’s good to have a menu of pain relief.”
Today the value of midwives’ ‘soft skills’ are, she says, finally being recognised –  and deployed where they are needed most.
Joan said: “There are major disparities. Women from deprived areas are more likely to have maternal deaths and more likely to have babies premature or who die.”
This is partly due to underlying health problems and poor housing but there are, Joan says, ways midwives can help. The first priority is to ensure mums- to-be do not see a different midwife every time.
She said: “If we have a service where they know someone, they are far more likely to engage.
“We need to think about it from the woman and her partner’s perspective, how they feel about coming into hospital where we’ve got all these signs saying don’t do this and don’t do that.  It’s about the human interaction. That, for me,  is a lot of what midwifery  is about.
“Even when you’re surrounded by technology, it’s the human element that makes a difference.”
l Great Expectations, part of the  Festival of Museums, is at the Royal College of Physicians until May 17.
