A THUG yesterday admitted racially abusing a Scottish Government Minister as he sold the Big Issue to highlight poverty.
Humza Yousaf was targeted by Christopher Chisholm, 31, outside Glasgow’s Queen Street train station last February.
The moron was caught on camera saying “benefit locust” before telling the Glasgow-born MSP: “You’re not from my country.”
He rants about Bulgarians and Romanians before adding: “Charity begins at home.”
Watch the video footage here
Warning: Video contains some strong language

Chisholm will be sentenced next month after pleading guilty at Glasgow Sheriff Court.
Last night, Yousaf, 30, said: “I am delighted with the outcome of this case. It shows that racism will not be tolerated in Scotland. When he made his racial remarks to me, I was selling the Big Issue to raise money for the good work they do.
“I doubt he would have made these comments had he known I was a Government Minister.
“This highlights the abuse that Big Issue vendors, who are looking for a hand up not a hand out, have to endure on a regular basis.
“My admiration for Big Issue vendors has only increased after this episode. I hope the outcome of this case demonstrates that those who suffer from any sort of discrimination should not have to passively take abuse.
“They should report it and ensure we send out a strong message that we have a zero-tolerance approach to bigotry, racism and xenophobia in whatever form it exists.”
The Record can reveal Chisholm was previously convicted of a breach of the peace after he ran on to the pitch at Hampden as Rangers beat Celtic in the 2003 League Cup final.
The brazen ned managed to blag former Ibrox striker Michael Mols’s match shirt but was later slapped with a &pound;600 fine. His ugly encounter with the SNP Minister for External Affairs – who was taking part in International Street Paper Vendor Week – was filmed by student journalists’ fortheweeg.com website.
Dad Chisholm, of Gartcosh, Glasgow, who runs his own installation firm, took delivery of a new washing machine hours after his court appearance yesterday.
When The Record knocked on the door of his detached home, his wife Christina answered. She declined to comment the case.

