A MAN told the jury in a murder plot trial he thought accused Antoin Duffy was “a fantasist”.
Edward McVeigh, 27, was giving evidence on the second day of the trial of four men accused of conspiring to murder former Northern Ireland paramilitary bosses Johnny “Mad Dog” Adair and Sam “Skelly” McCrory.
He shared a cell in Castle Huntly open prison with one of the accused Antoin Duffy – also known as Anton.
Mr McVeigh has claimed that Duffy, who supports a united Ireland, said he hated ex-Loyalist paramilitary boss Mr Adair and discussed shooting him with a Kalashnikov.
Under cross examination by QC Derek Ogg, Mr McVeigh admitted that both he and Duffy were addicted to the drug Tramadol.
 

Mr Ogg said: “There were times where you took Tramadol and would go four or five days without sleep. Any person would be affected by that psychologically – fantasising, talking gibberish,” and Mr McVeigh replied: “Yes.”
The QC went on: “You tell police you think Antoin Duffy is a fantasist, off his head on Tramadol,” and he replied: “Yes.”
The High Court in Glasgow heard that McVeigh was arrested on terrorism charges on October 23, 2013.
The court was told that the operation which led to his arrest involved a helicopter and armed police storming his home.
McVeigh was held for five days and charged with conspiracy to murder. The charge against him was dropped several months later.
Mr Ogg said: “During police interviews you were saying, ‘Why am I here. He’s a fantasist. All I did was share a cell with him’,” and Mr McVeigh replied: “That’s what I said.”
The QC then asked: “Did you tell police that he was talking this s*** especially when he had taken Tramadol?” and he answered: “That’s what I said.”
The court heard that Mr McVeigh came to Scotland after receiving a death threat from the UDA.
Mr Ogg told McVeigh: “There are tempting reasons for you to say things that would make you a witness rather than an accused.”
He replied: “I just said what I believed to be the truth.”
The court heard that at one point McVeigh said the police officers: “If he (Duffy) is the real deal that might put me in danger.”
Under-cross examination by Donald Findlay QC , who is representing another of the accused in the alleged murder plot, Paul Sands, Mr McVeigh admitted that during a conversation at Duffy’s flat – which was bugged – on August 2, 2013, he talked of wanting to “blow British bastards to hell and back”.
Mr McVeigh, who comes from a Loyalist background in Lisburn, Northern Ireland, apologised in court for making the remark.
He denied a suggestion from Mr Findlay that it was highly unusual for prison authorities to place a prisoner with a Loyalist background and one with a Republican background in the same cell.
Duffy, 39, Martin Hughes, 36, Sands, 31 and John Gorman, 58, deny conspiring to murder Mr Adair and Mr McCrory – once high profile figures in the Loyalist organisation and its military wing the Ulster Freedom Fighters.
It is also claimed Duffy and Gorman were allegedly part of a plan to murder the governor of Barlinnie jail Derek McGill in a car bomb attack.
Three other men – Craig Convery, 37, Gary Convery, 34, and Gordon Brown, 29 – deny organised crime charges.
The trial before judge Lady Scott continues.
Try your hand at our news quiz

