  Naismith 84′  Mallan 90′  
  Sutton 75′ (pen)  
 Motherwell will require success in the play-offs if they are to secure their Premiership status for next season. 
 A stoppage-time Stephen Mallan goal gave already relegated St Mirren victory in their penultimate top-flight fixture for a year at least. 
 Substitute John Sutton had given Motherwell the lead with a penalty. 
 But a Jason Naismith effort came off Motherwell's Mark O'Brien before nestling in the net and Mallan's goal consigned Well to second bottom place. 
 Before the late goal, Motherwell had striker Scott McDonald controversially sent off for violent conduct after a challenge with Thomas Reilly. 
 Ian Baraclough's Well will face Hibernian, Queen of the South or Rangers over two legs in the Scottish Premiership play-off final. 
 St Mirren had the opening chance when Sean Kelly was left unmarked at the back post at Mallan's free-kick but the defender's shot from the edge of the six-yard box was wide. 
 A huge travelling away support had arrived in Paisley to get behind their side but despite their backing, Motherwell had an air of tension in their early play. 
 As the weather deteriorated into a rain and hale storm, Alan Gow burst clear of the Well defence and with only goalkeeper George Long to beat slotted past the post. 
 At the other end, McDonald and Marvin Johnson combined to set up set up Erwin but the big striker's shot was turned to safety by Kello. 
 Motherwell's target of having to match or better the results of Ross County and Kilmarnock seemed to be having an adverse impact on their play as they looked to take the battle to avoid the play off spot to the last week of the season. 
 James Dayton rattled a shot towards George Long's goal that the keeper saved and Erwin and then McDonald headed just wide for Motherwell. 
 Gow was carried off on a stretcher after being clattered by Stephen McManus, who was booked for the challenge. 
 St Mirren should have taken the lead when substitutes Lewis Morgan and Kieran Sadlier along with Dayton peppered the Motherwell goal with a series of shots in a frantic sequence. However, the visitors somehow managed to keep their goal intact. 
 And when Reilly was judged to have fouled Erwin inside the box Motherwell got the breakthrough from the penalty spot. 
 Sutton, only on the pitch seven minutes as a replacement for Marvin Johnson, scored from the 12-yard mark. 
 The lead was short lived as Naismith's effort combined with the inability of Long and O'Brien to keep the ball out saw the Paisley side pull level. 
 In the final minute of regulation time, McDonald was dismissed by referee Brian Colvin after he seemed to catch Reilly with his arm in an aerial challenge. 
 The drama did not end there and in the seventh minute of added time Mallan blasted home the winner from 25 yards. 
    Full Time  Match ends, St. Mirren 2, Motherwell 1. 
    Full Time  Second Half ends, St. Mirren 2, Motherwell 1. 
 Yoann Arquin (St. Mirren) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Stephen Pearson (Motherwell). 
  Booking  Stephen Pearson (Motherwell) is shown the yellow card. 
  Goal!  Goal! St. Mirren 2, Motherwell 1. Stephen Mallan (St. Mirren) right footed shot from outside the box to the top left corner. Assisted by Kieran Sadlier. 
 Sean Kelly (St. Mirren) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Lee Erwin (Motherwell). 
 Attempt missed. Thomas Reilly (St. Mirren) left footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Corner, St. Mirren. Conceded by Stephen McManus. 
 Thomas Reilly (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Scott McDonald (Motherwell). 
  Dismissal  Scott McDonald (Motherwell) is shown the red card for a bad foul. 
 Corner, St. Mirren. Conceded by Simon Ramsden. 
  Substitution  Substitution, St. Mirren. Yoann Arquin replaces Steven Thompson. 
 Attempt missed. Stephen Mallan (St. Mirren) right footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high. 
  Goal!  Goal! St. Mirren 1, Motherwell 1. Jason Naismith (St. Mirren) right footed shot from a difficult angle on the right to the bottom left corner. 
 Foul by Lewis Morgan (St. Mirren). 
 Scott McDonald (Motherwell) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by James Dayton (St. Mirren). 
 Keith Lasley (Motherwell) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Corner, St. Mirren. Conceded by Simon Ramsden. 
 Attempt missed. Lee Erwin (Motherwell) right footed shot from long range on the left is close, but misses to the left. 
 Penalty conceded by Thomas Reilly (St. Mirren) after a foul in the penalty area. 
  Goal!  Goal! St. Mirren 0, Motherwell 1. John Sutton (Motherwell) converts the penalty with a right footed shot to the bottom left corner. 
 Penalty Motherwell. Lee Erwin draws a foul in the penalty area. 
 Attempt missed. John Sutton (Motherwell) left footed shot from the left side of the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Sean Kelly (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by John Sutton (Motherwell). 
 Foul by Steven Thompson (St. Mirren). 
 Stephen McManus (Motherwell) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt saved. Lewis Morgan (St. Mirren) right footed shot from the left side of the six yard box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Attempt saved. Lewis Morgan (St. Mirren) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
  Substitution  Substitution, St. Mirren. Lewis Morgan replaces Alan Gow because of an injury. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Motherwell. John Sutton replaces Marvin Johnson. 
  Booking  Stephen McManus (Motherwell) is shown the yellow card. 
 Alan Gow (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Stephen McManus (Motherwell). 
 Attempt saved. Lee Erwin (Motherwell) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
  Substitution  Substitution, St. Mirren. Kieran Sadlier replaces Gregg Wylde. 
 Attempt missed. Stephen Pearson (Motherwell) right footed shot from the centre of the box is just a bit too high. 
 Corner, Motherwell. Conceded by Sean Kelly. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Motherwell. Lionel Ainsworth replaces Conor Grant. 
 Attempt missed. Scott McDonald (Motherwell) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Attempt saved. Scott McDonald (Motherwell) right footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the bottom right corner. 
 Alan Gow (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Keith Lasley (Motherwell). 
  Booking  Keith Lasley (Motherwell) is shown the yellow card. 
 Attempt missed. Lee Erwin (Motherwell) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Attempt saved. James Dayton (St. Mirren) right footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Attempt missed. Gregg Wylde (St. Mirren) right footed shot from outside the box misses to the right. 
 James Dayton (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Scott McDonald (Motherwell). 
 Alan Gow (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Stephen Pearson (Motherwell). 
   Second Half begins St. Mirren 0, Motherwell 0. 
    Half Time  First Half ends, St. Mirren 0, Motherwell 0. 
 Corner, Motherwell. Conceded by Jack Baird. 
 Alan Gow (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Mark O'Brien (Motherwell). 
  Booking  Mark O'Brien (Motherwell) is shown the yellow card. 
 Corner, Motherwell. Conceded by Jeroen Tesselaar. 
 Foul by Steven Thompson (St. Mirren). 
 Steven Hammell (Motherwell) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Attempt missed. Sean Kelly (St. Mirren) right footed shot from the centre of the box is just a bit too high. 
 Corner, St. Mirren. Conceded by Steven Hammell. 
 Jeroen Tesselaar (St. Mirren) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Conor Grant (Motherwell). 
 Attempt saved. Lee Erwin (Motherwell) left footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Attempt saved. Marvin Johnson (Motherwell) left footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Alan Gow (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Keith Lasley (Motherwell). 
 Attempt missed. Alan Gow (St. Mirren) left footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Attempt missed. Conor Grant (Motherwell) left footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high. 
 Corner, Motherwell. Conceded by Jack Baird. 
 Attempt saved. Scott McDonald (Motherwell) right footed shot from very close range is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Foul by Stephen Mallan (St. Mirren). 
 Lee Erwin (Motherwell) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 James Dayton (St. Mirren) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Stephen Pearson (Motherwell). 
 Foul by Jack Baird (St. Mirren). 
 Lee Erwin (Motherwell) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Thomas Reilly (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Lee Erwin (Motherwell). 
 Corner, Motherwell. Conceded by Jason Naismith. 
 Alan Gow (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Keith Lasley (Motherwell). 
 Corner, St. Mirren. Conceded by Stephen McManus. 
 Attempt missed. Sean Kelly (St. Mirren) left footed shot from the right side of the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Foul by Mark O'Brien (Motherwell). 
 Alan Gow (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
   First Half begins. 
 Lineups are announced and players are warming up. 
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
