  McMenamin 3′  
  Fraser 59′  
 Stenhousemuir survived a nervous second half to secure their League One status for another season. 
 Leading 1-0 from the first leg, Brown Ferguson's men looked in command when Colin McMenamin headed an early opener. 
 League Two Queen's Park battled away and Shaun Fraser's equaliser set up an enthralling end to the match. 
 They just could not find the second goal that would have forced extra-time and will have to mount another promotion push next season. 
 There was relief all round at full-time for Stenny, who will look to rebuild over the summer to avoid a repeat of this drama. 
 The outcome looked to be a formality when Stenhousemuir doubled their aggregate advantage inside three minutes. 
 Their talented winger Paul McMullan, on loan from Celtic, curled a corner in from the right and the veteran goal-getter McMenamin glanced the ball past William Muir. 
 The home side dominated proceedings with McMullan, Bryan Hodge and Anthony Marenghi all going close, but failing to put the tie beyond Queen's Park. 
 Gus McPherson's team went for broke after the interval, pushing Tony Quinn up front and their endeavour paid dividends as Fraser bundled in, with home keeper Greg Fleming claiming for a foul. 
 The tension was getting to Stenhousemuir who were coming under increasing pressure, but Shaun Rooney and John Carter could not convert good opportunities. 
 In the dying minutes Paul Woods had a stunning volley pushed away by Fleming to end Queen's Park's hopes of promotion. 
    Full Time  Match ends, Stenhousemuir 1, Queen's Park 1. 
    Full Time  Second Half ends, Stenhousemuir 1, Queen's Park 1. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Stenhousemuir. Gregor Fotheringham replaces Anthony Marenghi. 
 Foul by Colin McMenamin (Stenhousemuir). 
 Paul Woods (Queen's Park) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Jamie McCormack (Stenhousemuir) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Tony Quinn (Queen's Park). 
 Attempt saved. Paul Woods (Queen's Park) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom right corner. 
 Attempt saved. Anthony Marenghi (Stenhousemuir) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Foul by Colin McMenamin (Stenhousemuir). 
 Patrick Slattery (Queen's Park) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Attempt missed. Ryan Hynes (Queen's Park) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Corner, Stenhousemuir. Conceded by Bryan Wharton. 
 Josh Watt (Stenhousemuir) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Shaun Rooney (Queen's Park). 
 Corner, Queen's Park. Conceded by Bryan Hodge. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Queen's Park. Ryan Hynes replaces Ross McPherson. 
  Booking  Jamie McCormack (Stenhousemuir) is shown the yellow card. 
  Booking  Shaun Rooney (Queen's Park) is shown the yellow card. 
 Josh Watt (Stenhousemuir) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Shaun Rooney (Queen's Park). 
 Attempt missed. Sean Burns (Queen's Park) left footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Corner, Queen's Park. Conceded by Ross Meechan. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Stenhousemuir. Josh Watt replaces Martin Grehan. 
 Foul by Ross Meechan (Stenhousemuir). 
 Tony Quinn (Queen's Park) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Attempt saved. Ciaran Summers (Stenhousemuir) right footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Ciaran Summers (Stenhousemuir) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Shaun Rooney (Queen's Park). 
 Corner, Queen's Park. Conceded by Greg Fleming. 
 Attempt saved. John Carter (Queen's Park) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom right corner. 
 Paul McMullan (Stenhousemuir) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Patrick Slattery (Queen's Park). 
 Attempt missed. Shaun Fraser (Queen's Park) left footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Ciaran Summers (Stenhousemuir) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Shaun Rooney (Queen's Park). 
 Attempt missed. Shaun Rooney (Queen's Park) right footed shot from the right side of the box is close, but misses the top right corner. 
 Attempt missed. Colin McMenamin (Stenhousemuir) left footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the right. 
  Goal!  Goal! Stenhousemuir 1, Queen's Park 1. Shaun Fraser (Queen's Park) header from the centre of the box to the centre of the goal. Assisted by Patrick Slattery. 
 Attempt missed. Patrick Slattery (Queen's Park) left footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses the top right corner. 
 Corner, Queen's Park. Conceded by Ross Meechan. 
 Attempt blocked. Shaun Rooney (Queen's Park) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. 
 Attempt missed. Kristopher Faulds (Stenhousemuir) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the right. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Queen's Park. John Carter replaces Ciaran McElroy. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Queen's Park. Shaun Rooney replaces Vincent Berry. 
 Patrick Slattery (Queen's Park) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Jamie McCormack (Stenhousemuir). 
 Corner, Stenhousemuir. Conceded by Paul Woods. 
 Paul McMullan (Stenhousemuir) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Vincent Berry (Queen's Park). 
 Corner, Queen's Park. Conceded by Greg Fleming. 
 Corner, Queen's Park. Conceded by Ross Meechan. 
 Foul by Martin Grehan (Stenhousemuir). 
 Vincent Berry (Queen's Park) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
   Second Half begins Stenhousemuir 1, Queen's Park 0. 
    Half Time  First Half ends, Stenhousemuir 1, Queen's Park 0. 
  Booking  Sean Burns (Queen's Park) is shown the yellow card. 
 Colin McMenamin (Stenhousemuir) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Sean Burns (Queen's Park). 
 Foul by Alan Lithgow (Stenhousemuir). 
 Patrick Slattery (Queen's Park) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Corner, Stenhousemuir. Conceded by Sean Burns. 
 Attempt blocked. Paul McMullan (Stenhousemuir) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. 
 Attempt saved. Anthony Marenghi (Stenhousemuir) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Martin Grehan (Stenhousemuir) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Tony Quinn (Queen's Park). 
 Jamie McCormack (Stenhousemuir) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Paul Woods (Queen's Park). 
 Paul McMullan (Stenhousemuir) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Vincent Berry (Queen's Park). 
 Attempt missed. Ross McPherson (Queen's Park) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Attempt missed. Paul Woods (Queen's Park) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left. 
  Booking  Paul McMullan (Stenhousemuir) is shown the yellow card. 
 Foul by Paul McMullan (Stenhousemuir). 
 Ciaran McElroy (Queen's Park) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Attempt missed. Anthony Marenghi (Stenhousemuir) left footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the right from a direct free kick. 
 Anthony Marenghi (Stenhousemuir) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Bryan Wharton (Queen's Park). 
 Attempt missed. Bryan Hodge (Stenhousemuir) left footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Foul by Bryan Hodge (Stenhousemuir). 
 Patrick Slattery (Queen's Park) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Corner, Stenhousemuir. Conceded by Gavin Mitchell. 
 Foul by Jamie McCormack (Stenhousemuir). 
 Ross McPherson (Queen's Park) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Bryan Hodge (Stenhousemuir). 
 Paul Woods (Queen's Park) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Corner, Queen's Park. Conceded by Greg Fleming. 
 Attempt saved. Ciaran McElroy (Queen's Park) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Foul by Anthony Marenghi (Stenhousemuir). 
 Shaun Fraser (Queen's Park) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Jamie McCormack (Stenhousemuir). 
 Patrick Slattery (Queen's Park) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Hand ball by Ross Meechan (Stenhousemuir). 
 Corner, Stenhousemuir. Conceded by Sean Burns. 
 Corner, Queen's Park. Conceded by Ross Meechan. 
 Corner, Queen's Park. Conceded by Alan Lithgow. 
 Attempt blocked. Paul Woods (Queen's Park) right footed shot from a difficult angle on the left is blocked. 
 Foul by Colin McMenamin (Stenhousemuir). 
 Tony Quinn (Queen's Park) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Corner, Stenhousemuir. Conceded by Tony Quinn. 
  Goal!  Goal! Stenhousemuir 1, Queen's Park 0. Colin McMenamin (Stenhousemuir) header from the left side of the six yard box to the high centre of the goal. Assisted by Paul McMullan following a corner. 
 Corner, Stenhousemuir. Conceded by Tony Quinn. 
 Attempt blocked. Colin McMenamin (Stenhousemuir) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. 
 Foul by Gavin Mitchell (Queen's Park). 
 Ciaran Summers (Stenhousemuir) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Attempt missed. Anthony Marenghi (Stenhousemuir) right footed shot from the left side of the box is close, but misses to the left. 
   First Half begins. 
 Lineups are announced and players are warming up. 
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
