GLASGOW WARRIORS coach Gregor Townsend says there’s no such thing as a weak Ulster – after they wielded the axe for today’s Pro12 clash.
The Belfast outfit removed all but three of their line-up that battled back to claim a draw with Munster last weekend.
But Townsend won’t be fooled and has told his players to be on their guard for the 10,000 sellout at Scotstoun where both sides need a win to keep alive their quest to earn a home semi-final tie.
He said: “We had heard there would be some sort of rotation in their group and they have mixed things up a bit.
“Some of their biggest names are on the bench but Ulster have always had a strong squad and no matter who they pick, it is going to be competitive.
 
“I remember last year at this stage of the season they picked a second team to face Munster at Thomond Park – and beat them.
“No matter who is out there in a white jersey, they will be a highly-motivated bunch.
 “With all the matches being staged simultaneously it will be important to keep up to speed  with what is happening with Ospreys at Galway and Munster at Cork so we can keep skipper Al Kellock informed. 

“But that won’t change what we have to do – win, preferably with a bonus point.
“If Ospreys or Munster lose, then any victory would be enough to give us the home tie. However, if either is winning and earning a bonus point, we would have to do likewise.”
Kellock comes into the second row to make his 156th appearance for the club in place of the injured Tim Swinson.
Winger Sean Lamont returns from his eight-week lay-off for Niko Matawalu, who takes over from Henry Pyrgos at scrum-half.
The only other change to the backline sees Finn Russell come in for Duncan Weir at stand-off.
Up front for Glasgow Dougie Hall replaces Pat MacArthur at hooker and Rossouw de Klerk returns to the side for Jon Welsh.
Josh Strauss moves to blindside flanker replacing Rob Harley, with Adam Ashe returning from injury at No.8.
 Glasgow : S Hogg; T Seymour, R Vernon, P Horne, S Lamont; F Russell, N Matawalu; R Grant, D Hall, R de Klerk, J Gray, A Kellock (capt), J Gray, J Strauss, C Fusaro, A Ashe. 
 Subs: P McArthur, G Reid, M Cusack, L Nakarawa, R Wilson, H Pyrgos, D Weir, P Murchie. 

