Jim Murphy will tomorrow face down a crisis vote on his future at the head of Scottish Labour.
The embattled leader hopes to see off a vote of no confidence one week after he was humiliated in the general election.
Angry unions blame Murphy for taking the party to defeat, but his supporters believe they have enough backing among elected politicians.
His fate will be in the hands of 31 members of the Scottish Executive Committee, the party’s ruling body, at a tense meeting in Glasgow.

Murphy has kept a low profile since he lost his East Renfrewshire seat along with 40 other Labour MPs.
And he was refusing to make any comment on his future today.
Ian Murray, the only Labour MP left in Scotland, defended his leader and said: “With just a year until the Scottish Parliament elections this is not the time for division.
“We need to rebuild our movement together with Jim Murphy as our leader, so that the people of Scotland will place their trust in our party again.
“Families across Scotland are hurting because of unfair Tory austerity and need a strong Labour voice standing up for them.
“Instead of spending so much time talking about ourselves we need to focus on Scotland and the change this country needs.”
The motion of no confidence will be brought forward by a trade union, but it is not on the official agenda.
Unite and train drivers’ union Aslef have already demanded Murphy’s head.
Yesterday, the Communication Workers Union (CWU) added their voice to calls for Murphy to go.
A spokesman said: “CWU is calling for the resignation of Jim Murphy as Scottish Labour leader following the party’s performance in the general election, which was particularly disastrous in Scotland.
“It is clear that the Labour Party needs to rebuild in Scotland and CWU believes that will be done most effectively under new leadership.”
Public sector union Unison said they would “not oppose” any widely supported move to replace him.
Murphy was supported by shop workers’ union Usdaw, which backed his successful bid to take over from Johann Lamont last year.
Cowdenbeath MSP Alex Rowley, a close ally of Gordon Brown, was the first at Holyrood to break ranks and call for his resignation.
But Dumfriesshire MSP Elaine Murray offered her support last night - despite backing Murphy’s left-wing rival Neil Findlay in the leadership contest last year.
Murray said: “This is all a bit of a distraction from the real work we need to be doing.
“We shouldn’t be fighting among ourselves.
“It’s not secret I voted for Neil because I liked his politics and thought it would be better if we were led by an MSP rather than an MP.
“But local members voted for Jim as did my constituency party.
“Not one person here has come to and said Jim should go.
“I think Jim should stay and stand for Holyrood next year. If we get another kicking then, of course he’d have to consider his position.
“Jim only had five months to fight this and I think he’s become the scapegoat for some people.
“Labour has had problems since 1999, it can’t all be blamed on Jim.
“Far better that we get behind him and stop fighting among ourselves.”
Members of the Almond Valley constituency Labour party voted by a “clear majority” on Thursday night for Murphy to step down.
 Try your hand at our news quiz 

