 EVEN when she was fighting her own cancer battle, brave Donna Miller wanted to help others struck down with the same disease. 
Now, just three years after she died, her family will see the mum of two’s dream come true as a children’s ward supported by money raised in her memory opens.
Family and friends raised more than &pound;60,000 for the new Royal Hospital for Sick Children in Glasgow.
They set up the Donna Miller Memorial Fund after her death, aged just 29.
Her mum Ellen Gilhoolie said: “Donna used to get transport to hospital for her radiation therapy and she used to say, ‘When I’m better, mum, I’m going to be one of the hospital volunteers’.
“When she passed away, the family did it for her.”
 

 Their charity work has helped enhance the family and patient &shy;facilities in the acute medical receiving ward in the new hospital at the site of the old Southern &shy;General. 
The ward will be officially opened on June 1, with Donna’s family in attendance.
Ellen said: “Helping the hospital in her name has helped give us all a focus. I think if we didn’t have the charity, we wouldn’t be doing so well but we aren’t stopping here. We’re having a charity ball next year as the ward will need things replaced. I’d love to get to &pound;100,000.
“Donna was quite shy and wouldn’t have liked all the publicity but I hope she would be proud of the legacy we’ve created for her boys.”
 

Donna’s brother Sean Gilhoolie, 23, said: “The ward will be the biggest receiving ward in Europe. The boys won’t be there on the day of the opening, it will be too emotional.”
The donation has paid for distraction therapies, including a &shy;ceiling which creates the illusion you are beneath a sunny sky, in the &shy;isolation rooms as well as a range of play facilities.
 Donna died in April 2012 after battling a brain tumour for more than four years. She sacrificed her life for her younger son, shunning chemotherapy to give birth to son Bobby. 
 

Donna, the wife of former Scotland striker Lee Miller, passed away weeks after he turned one.
The ward officially opens on June 15.
Yorkhill Children’s Charity fundraising director Kirsten Sinclair said: “These enhancements will help ensure thousands of children receive the best care and experience possible.
“We are extremely grateful to Donna’s friends and family for their tireless fundraising.”
 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

