The Duggan family’s new home has the ultimate kerb appeal.
Audrey and husband Mark used to pass the site where Dundas Estates were building their new Gilbertsfields View development in Cambuslang on the outskirts of Glasgow.
And the more they saw it, the more impressed they became.
Audrey, 40, mum to Lewis, 12, and Abbi, nine, said: “We lived in Drumsagard and saw the development as we were driving past. We liked the area. Gilbertsfield View is built near woodlands and it seemed like a nice change for us. We wanted more space and we thought the builds looked gorgeous.”
After visiting the sales office and being talked through the plans, the couple set their hearts on a five-bedroom, detached Sanderson home and drove to a Dundas site in Irvine to view it before making a final decision.
Audrey, who is self-employed and sells personalised items and Forever Living aloe vera products, said: “We went down to Irvine to see the Sanderson house and ended up buying it off-plan.
“We just loved it – the space, the openness and the quality finishes of the homes.”
In particular, Audrey loves her new open-plan kitchen, which is big enough to entertain friends and family.
She said: “Our big kitchen-dining area is 30ft long. We have people over all the time. It’s a great social space.”
 Gilbertfields View is a collection of 61 three-bedroom terraced, three bedroom semi-detached and three, four and five-bedroom homes. 
The Sanderson type features a large lounge with bay window to the front stretching through to the rear and into the impressive kitchen and dining space with French doors to the garden. There is an option for buyers to divide the large space into two smaller spaces, subject to build stage.
 The utility area leads to an integrated double garage. Upstairs, two of the five bedrooms are en suite plus a large family bathroom. 
Working from home, Audrey uses the fifth bedroom as an office and the family are thrilled with the amount of extra space they are enjoying since moving in November. 
Audrey said: “Our house was one of the first of its kind on the development so it was exciting to see it being built and finally being able to move in. The finishes are excellent and it still feels really special living here. The amount of space on offer to cater for the practicalities of life and to add a bit of style is fantastic.”
Close to the A724, there is convenient access to the M74/M73 and M8 and local train stations at Cambuslang, Kirkhill and Newton.
■ Prices at Gilbertsfield View start from &pound;197,750. Showhomes are open Thursday to Monday, 11am-5pm. Call 0845 005 5007 or visit www.dundas.co.uk
