 BLYTHE Duff thought she knew all about the horrors of World War II . 
Growing up, her parents spoke guardedly about the conflict and she remembers the landmark documentary series The World At War being on TV on a Sunday evening.
The ominous theme music of the programme and the sombre narration of Laurence Olivier never failed to unsettle her but, 70 years on from the end of the conflict, she is learning the true magnitude of the war for the first time.
 The former Taggart star, who has reinvented herself as an award-winning stage performer, is preparing for her  latest role as investigative journalist Gitta Sereny at the Citizens Theatre in Glasgow . 
Into That Darkness is a dramatisation of lengthy interviews Gitta undertook with a convicted Nazi war criminal, SS-Obersturmf&uuml;hrer Franz Stangl in 1970, not long after he been sentenced to life imprisonment for his role in the deaths of 900,000 people in extermination camps at Sobibor and Treblinka.
For the actress, getting her head around that number of victims has led her to look away from the Citizens to another of Glasgow’s iconic stages, The SSE Hydro.
Blythe, 52, said: “What Gitta did brilliantly was to actually go the people who had carried this out, who were actually living, breathing, human beings who had to go about their daily job. How did they do that? What was their job?
“She makes Stangl go through the routine of a day and it was a routine.
 

“You only ever think about the horror but the actual military precision of turning that around in a day, not a week, not a month, but in a day, an hour, so that by noon, 5000 people had been ‘dealt with’.
 “I have been thinking about The Hydro.  It has a capacity for 12,000. So, half of that in a morning. Then the next day, another half of that. And the next day and the next day and the next day, for months. 
“The subject is so huge that you kind of have an overall feel for that time but I don’t think up until now I had been able to put it into some kind of context, to even see what 5000 people would have been like.
“I think that one of the reasons I chose to do this piece was because I kind of thought I knew this period of history, even just through my parents.
 “I didn’t study it, in fact, I had the choice to do so and chose not to and I think it was perhaps because my parents talked about the war and you would grow up with The World At War being on a Sunday night.  The theme music alone would put the fear of death into you and hearing the voiceover was ever so slightly scary so I thought I knew what it was about and I haven’t really quite addressed it up until now. 
“If I am doing it now, and I was on the aftermath of that period, then I suspect there is a whole generation who know it was ‘something about the Holocaust’ but not a lot else. That is why I think now, on the 70th anniversary, it is important to bring another generation into at least thinking about and contemplating it.”
Into That Darkness has appeared at the Citizens before. Gitta’s book was dramatised in 1994 by the theatre’s former artistic director Robert David MacDonald under the title In Quest of Conscience.
This new production, which stars Cliff Burnett as Stangl and is directed by Gareth Nicholls, not only marks 70 years since the end of World War II, it also staged during the theatre’s 70th anniversary year.
Blythe is taken with the thought that Gitta, who was appointed an honorary CBE in 2003 and died in 2012, came to the theatre for the original production.
She said: “She came to see the it and I’m really intrigued to think she was actually in this building.”
The actress, who starred alongside The Killing star Sofie Grabol in the National Theatre of Scotland’s acclaimed James Plays last year, did not know Gitta or her work before signing up for the play but has become fascinated by her.
Blythe said: “To my shame, I didn’t know who Gitta Sereny was until the play was sent to me. I’m surprised I hadn’t come across her, especially now knowing what she brought to her books and how she worked. She was a brilliant historian and amazing journalist. She was quite extraordinary in that she was always drawn to these very dark subjects.”
 As well as her book on Stangl, considered one of the best books on The Third Reich, the author profiled  and interviewed controversial figures including child killer Mary Bell and Hitler’s architect Albert Speer. 
She was criticised in some quarters for becoming too close to her subjects, although Blythe is quick to defend her.
She said: “In Gitta’s terms, close means she came to some kind of discovery of him, bearing in mind it was probably her first all-out attempt to interview somebody in that kind of concentrated way.
 

“We have had a psychologist come in to talk to us about psychopaths and what those traits are and it turns out Stangl is not a psychopath. But she was saying what Gitta managed to get to the bottom of in 70 hours was absolutely extraordinary and it would have taken her, as a psychologist, years to break that down.
“She got close because she got the truth or as close to the truth as she could get.
“We’ve got a wonderful starting point with the book to go, ‘Right, how do we need this to serve the play?’”
Into That Darkness takes dialogue from the interviews between Gitta and Stangl but Blythe is not impersonating the author, who was born in Vienna and witnessed the Nuremberg Rally.
Instead, the focus is on the interviews and will move from the interviews to Gitta witnessing some of the events in Stangl’s account.
 She said: “It is not a biopic of Gitta.  We’re not going down the Austro/German accents route. We’re playing this in a Glasgow theatre in the Gorbals. The audience come in the door and identify with the people on stage. 
“It is almost verbatim. She does say she will try to listen to what he has to say and report without prejudice. In the end, she gets him to reveal quite a lot about himself but she does go through moments when she thinks, ‘I can’t do this anymore’.”
Blythe herself, having spent 21 years on TV putting villains away as DI Jackie Reid in Taggart, wonders if she could find the strength to forgive such evil.
 She said: “I could maybe understand it. I think that’s what Gitta comes to.  She doesn’t think it’s right but she can piece together that world.” 
Stangl himself found a natural kind of justice when his conversations with Gitta led him to admit responsibility for his crimes.
She said: “He took on his own guilt and he died the next day.”
 Into That Darkness is at the Citizens Theatre from tomorrow until May 30 at 7.30pm. Previews – tomorrow and Tuesday, 7.30pm. Matinee – Saturday, May 30, 2.30pm. Box office, 0141 429 0022, citz.co.uk 
  
 
