BOXING manager Alex Morrison has been made &shy;bankrupt by rival &shy;promoter Frank Warren over &pound;50,000 in unpaid libel damages.
Warren, 62, was awarded the money last October at &shy;London’s High Court.
But Warren then launched a separate action at &shy;Glasgow &shy;Sheriff Court after &shy;Morrison failed to pay the sum.
 Morrison, who manages ex-world champion Ricky Burns, was formally made bankrupt at the same court last week. 
The bankruptcy order – also known as a &shy;sequestration – was granted by Sheriff Kenneth Hogg on Monday.
Morrison was not in court.
The order means all &shy;Morrison’s assets including his &pound;300,000 bungalow in Carmyle, Glasgow, have been frozen.
Accountants Wyllie and Bisset were appointed &shy;trustees and now have the power to sell all or any of Morrison’s assets.
 

Morrison, in turn, &shy;cannot sell or dispose of his assets unless he pays the &pound;50,000 plus any legal and court costs. He also runs a boxing gym in &shy;Dalmarnock, Glasgow, and is believed to run a &shy;haulage firm, which could also be affected.
Warren sued Morrison after the Scot made allegations about the reasons for the postponement of a Ricky Burns fight in 2013.
The pair have had a long-running feud over the &shy;management rights to the 32-year-old boxer.
 Warren originally &shy;promoted Burns’s fights – but rival Eddie Hearn took over that role in 2013, with Morrison continuing as Burns’s manager. 
Last December, Warren also sued Ricky Burns for &pound;420,000 in unpaid fees.
He said the fighter was “tapped up” by Hearn.
A judge ruled Burns had not been entitled to end the promotional agreement with Warren and ordered him to pay the cash.
 Burns was unable to pay and declared himself &shy;insolvent in March. 
 

Warren said: “Alex &shy;Morrison is a bully but this time he picked on the wrong person. This was avoidable and unnecessary.”
Alex Morrison said: “I never defended the case and the only reason he brought the action against me was out of disrespect to Ricky Burns.
“I didn’t bother &shy;defending it. If I had have defended the thing I would have won the case.
“It doesn’t bother me as I haven’t got a business, I’m retired and I don’t have any assets.
“My house isn’t mine and my business is in my &shy;daughter’s name and she runs it.”
 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

