ALEC Newman got off a train to be met by two men he had never met before.
They blindfolded him, bundled him into a car and then kept him in the dark for the next two days.
It sounds like a scene from a drama but it was how the actor prepared for a role as a former soldier who lost his sight in Afghanistan.
The men who met him in Llandudno, Wales, were with Blind Veterans UK .
 One of them, Billy Baxter, is a former soldier who lost his sight and now helps others in the same  predicament. 
Alec said his research for the film Greyhawk was “one of the most rewarding things I have ever taken on”.
It has stayed with the former Waterloo Road star. He’s now a patron of the military charity, supporting their No One Alone campaign, which reaches out to vision-impaired veterans and their families.
Alec, 40, could have been forgiven if he had doubts when he met Billy and rehabilitation officer Vince Godper.
 

He said: “They picked me up at the station, put a blindfold on me, got me into a car and drove me to the centre. Pretty much the whole two days, I had the blindfold on while they taught me to use the cane, cross a road, brush my teeth, go to bed, have breakfast, so I had a taste of the routine.
“We went out for a meal the first night I was there and I was wearing special opaque glasses – you can’t see through them.
 “They said, ‘The pub is in front of you, we want you to just go find the door, find our table in the corner  and we’ll meet you there’. 
“I managed to get in but halfway across the pub I felt the arm of one of the guys. He said, ‘Come on, we’re over here’.
 “I couldn’t take off the glasses. Having behaved like someone without sight, it would have been insulting  to the people who were there. 
 

“I was in at the deep end and it worked on two levels, the emotional level, and the practical level, how you get about, how you respond if you are lost in certain situations.”
In the film, Alec – who starred as Waterloo Road headteacher Michael Byrne – plays Mal. Blinded in Afghanistan, Mal is forced to explore a rundown council estate when his guide dog goes missing.
The dangers he faces and characters he meets on the Greyhawk Estate take the edgy, embittered veteran on a journey of personal discovery. Alec said: “It was vital that I experienced emotionally what the deprivations of one’s sight does. It’s in the film, I think, when Mal loses the dog,
“The rising panic of all of a sudden not having your guide but also, quite literally, your place in the world has vanished. You don’t know which way you came from.
“Also, there’s emotional panic. The two things are interlinked.
“Mal is not a particularly nice man for great chunks of the film and the dog is nearest he has to a pal.”
The film, which is available on video on demand and is out on DVD on May 25, was nominated for the Michael Powell best British feature film award at the Edinburgh International Film Festival.
 The critics he feared most, however, were Blind Veterans UK. He said: “One of the greatest moments with the  film was when I got the all clear from them. They said it was ‘worryingly accurate’. That was a real relief. I’m tremendously grateful to them. 
 

“The reason it was so good to be around Billy is he remembers the emotional turmoil of the aftermath of his blindness.
“He wasn’t instantly blind, he got an infection in Bosnia and he knew he was going to lose his sight. He is able to talk about it in very clear, unemotional terms and a sense of humour, black humour sometimes. It wouldn’t have been possible without his involvement.”
Making Greyhawk, which also stars Jack Shepherd and Zoe Telford, had a profound effect on Glasgow-born Alec, who is the son of Marmalade singer Sandy Newman,
He spent three years living in the US, appearing on shows such as Children of Dune, and saw the respect veterans are given there.
 He said: “Returning veterans coming back with horrific injuries – physical, mental or both – is  something I have been aware of. I think it stems back to when I lived in America and encountered the way they treat their veterans. 
“The government provision there puts what happens in this country in many instances to shame, although it is better now.
“The basic element is they do take care of people who have gone away to do their duty.
“I feel very strongly about showing gratitude to people who risk their lives so we can live the life we lead.
“That’s not to say every war is the right war. You can object to the war but objecting to people who have just gone and done their duty is something else entirely.”
Alec is in rehearsals with the National Theatre in London and has just finished filming the pilot for US broadcaster Fox’s medieval drama The Bastard Executioner in Wales.
He was sad to see Waterloo Road close its doors for the final time, not surprising given he met his wife Heather on set, but said: “I think it had come to its natural end.
“Nearly a decade of any show, you can relax and call it a great success.”
 He’s also aware the show gave him a platform to continue to help Blind Veterans UK, who mark their  centenary this year. 
He said: “At the time I approached Blind Veterans, I was on the TV every week in Waterloo Road, which is potentially useful for the charity. I’m not beyond understanding that.
“But with the film coming out now, on the charity’s 100th birthday, there is an opportunity to give back to them a little of what they gave us.
“It gets the message out that there are still veterans out there who are unaware of the charity and they are entitled to help with their sight problems even if they weren’t injured in service.”

