TWINS Alexandra and Lara Pierotti have always enjoyed doing everything together.
 They share the same interests, have the same friends, study the same subjects at the same school and hope to be accepted on the same course at the same university . 
But when the 16-year-olds fell ill at the same time, doctors were shocked to discover they had been hit by the same autoimmune condition, coeliac disease.
While the illness has genetic links, medics say it is extremely unusual that both girls would be diagnosed with it together.
 Mum Lyndi, 49, of Bearsden, Glasgow , said: “Alexandra and Lara are very close and have always done everything together. When they fell ill, it took almost 18 months before Alexandra was firstly diagnosed and we  knew straight away that Lara had to be tested for it too. Having each other has probably made things a little easier for them – they have one another for support and to check things if they are unsure about eating something or not. 
“But obviously, we wish this was something neither of them were going through.”
Coeliac disease is when the body’s immune system damages the lining of the small bowel when gluten – a protein found in wheat, barley and rye – is eaten.
 

While common symptoms can include frequent bouts of diarrhoea, vomiting and bloating – neither Alexandra or Lara suffered any tummy complaints. But they say the disease left them so physically and mentally exhausted, they had to give up the sports they loved, they needed to rest at lunchtime at school and even lacked the energy to chat.
Alexandra, who like her non-identical twin sister, is a pupil at Glasgow Academy, said: “Both Lara and I went from being full of energy all the time to being so tired we didn’t want to do anything. We would fall asleep in the car on the way to school. When at school, we would go to the drama department at lunchtime where we knew we could rest.
“We had to stop playing hockey and we struggled in fitness class. When we came home, we were always having naps. And we just felt so lethargic and awful all the time.”
Lara added: “It sounds silly but even chatting to our friends was exhausting and I would sometimes struggle to keep up with the conversations. We have since learned that having ‘brain fog’ can be a symptom of coeliac disease but at the time, we didn’t know what was going on. It was quite frightening not knowing what it was.”
Over almost 18 months, the girls made repeated trips to their doctors and were prescribed iron tablets after both were found to be anaemic. When other tests showed no abnormalities, their symptoms were dismissed as being related to puberty.
But worried mum Lyndi says she and husband Roano, 55, a chartered surveyor, knew something more serious was going on.
Lyndi said: “The girls went from being really bubbly teenagers to being really hangy and not wanting to do anything at all. As a parent, you worry that something sinister might be going on but any tests came back normal.
“Then I was back at our GP with Alexandra and he said he was going to test her for coeliac disease to rule it out. When the test came back positive, it was a massive shock.”
Both girls had to undergo biopsies for confirmation. They were then given strict instructions to remove all gluten from their diet – including standard bread, pasta, flours, cereals and biscuits.
 

Lyndi said: “As soon as we removed gluten from their diets, the transformation was amazing. Within three weeks, their energy was coming back and they were much more like their old selves.”
The girls say their bodies now suffer an extreme reaction if they do digest anything with gluten in it by mistake.
Lyndi said: “Eating out can be a problem as you have to trust in others that something really is gluten-free.
“At home, things are much easier but any gluten-free ingredients are much more expensive.
“We learned the girls need to have their own toaster and their own food preparation areas, as even a crumb from a piece of non-gluten-free bread can cause problems.”
Lara said: “Since taking gluten out our diet, we now get really upset stomachs if we have ever accidentally have even the smallest amount of gluten. To us, gluten is a poison. Alexandra feels faint and sometimes my legs swell and I get joint pain. We both get upset stomachs – our tummies start making terrible noises – and we feel really bloated.”
Alexandra said: “We get terrible cramps and stabbing pains in our stomachs and it feels like there is a balloon inside swelling up. But thankfully most of the time now, we feel really well.”
The girls, who are currently sitting their Higher exams, hope to study international business at university and have plans to set up their own company making gluten-free meals.
Alexandra said: “We want to do everything we can to raise awareness of the condition, its symptoms and living gluten-free.”

 Lara added: “We would love to set up our own business one day, offering a wider range of foods for anyone who  does have to be gluten-free.” 
Experts predict there may be as many as 40,000 people living in Scotland unaware they have coeliac disease.
Myles Fitt, Scotland Lead at Coeliac UK said: “Coeliac does run in families so it is important to be aware of the symptoms as one in 10 close relatives of people with coeliac disease will be at risk.”
 The charity have just launched a dedicated website to help fast-track diagnosis – www.isitcoeliacdisease.org.uk 

