UNSUSPECTING Scottish women have been secretly filmed and their images uploaded to a disturbing porn website.
Hundreds of unwitting victims have been targeted by perverts using hidden cameras in public places.
Videos include images of women carrying small children in supermarkets as a cameraman tries to aim his lens up their skirt.
Other clips show women out jogging in parks and walking down the street.
Laura Tomson, co-director of women’s charity group Zero Tolerance, yesterday said more needed to be done to clamp down on sex websites who used material with no consent.
She said: “So-called ‘upskirt shots’ and other intimate images that are shared without women’s consent are clear violations of women’s right to go about their business in a public place.
“The fact that some men feel entitled to share women’s images in this way points to wider cultural problems.
“We live in a culture saturated with objectifying images of women, which sends the message to men that women exist for their consumption. This has to change.”
One video of women in a Glasgow supermarket has been seen more than 13,000 times.
In the three-minute clip , three women had the camera pointed up their skirts. Two of them were caring for small children when they were targeted.
 

One user who viewed the video commented: “Great vid. I’m attempting the same. Roll on the summer and short skirts.”
Another video, thought to be made in Aberdeen, shows a woman in a tight skirt and high heels. It’s had 3500 hits since it was uploaded last year.
A third video of young women jogging in Glasgow’s Kelvingrove Park has been viewed more than 1500 times.
And a fourth clip shows a young shop assistant bending down as she stocks shelves. It has been viewed more than 6000 times.
It’s thought the videos were made using smartphones.
The website – which the Sunday Mail has chosen not to name – claims to have 70million page views every day.
It also claims to attract more than five million new users a day and is valued at &pound;130million.
The site, registered in the US but hosted in the Netherlands, was in the 100 most visited websites in the world in 2014.
About five per cent of its users came from the UK.
The Scottish Government want to bring in new laws which would clamp down on images being uploaded to the internet without consent. The measures include making it a criminal offence to post intimate images online without permission – such as so-called revenge porn.
Heather Williams, from Scottish Women’s Aid, said: “This kind of abuse is becoming all too common and needs to stop.
“It’s vital this is taken seriously by other agencies, including the police. We will work with our partners to do all we can to make women safer.”
Detective Inspector Peter Lloyd said: “We are aware of a number of online websites utilised to upload, store and share videos, including this one.
“Police Scotland take reports of all sexual offences, including voyeurism, very seriously.
“Anyone who believes they may have been the victim of such activity should report this to the police by calling 101.
“Where offences are identified, we will take all appropriate steps to ensure those responsible are brought to justice.
“We are committed to keeping people safe in all areas of Scotland, including when online.”
The website didn’t respond to our request for a comment.
Earlier this year, we revealed how Scottish schoolgirls had their images stolen from social media and uploaded to a website used by paedophiles.

