 THE elusive tycoon at the centre of a criminal probe into a &pound;400million hedge fund collapse has jetted back into Scotland. 
But Greg King refused to apologise to investors after returning to his native Glasgow on a flying visit.
Outside his parents’ mansion on the city’s south side, the multi-millionaire referred all questions to blue-chip legal firm Carter Ruck.
It is the first time he has been seen in Scotland since the crash of his hedge fund Heather Capital was revealed in December.
King, 46, lawyer Andrew Sobolewski, accountant Andrew Millar and property expert Scott Carmichael were named in a police report sent to the Crown Office.
Investors put money into the fund and Heather gave subsidiary firm Mathon huge loans for developments in Scotland. It is claimed the plots were low value and developments never happened.
Asked about the collapse, King replied: “I am only back in Scotland for one day but any comment should come from my lawyers Carter Ruck.”
We asked whether he would like to address investors who lost out.
He replied: “Well, again that would have to come from Carter Ruck.”
We asked whether he had been interviewed by police. He replied: “Any questions about that would have to go to Carter Ruck.”
We said: “If you are interviewed again, will you be employing similar techniques as you are with us?”
King replied: “You would have to ask Carter Ruck about that.”
We asked: “Have you hired Carter Ruck just to deal with the media or are they representing you in other aspects of the case?”
King said: “Again, as you know, that would have to be addressed to Carter Ruck.”
And finally: “If I was to ask you what colour of jumper you are wearing, I take it I should address that to Carter Ruck as well?
Smiling, he replied: “Yes, I think you probably should.”
King lives in the gated La Zagaleta complex in Marbella, Spain, where properties sell for up to &pound;20million. He is rarely in Scotland. He set up Heather in 2004. They went into liquidation six years later.
He paid himself about &pound;34million between 2005 and 2008.
 Liquidators Ernst &amp; Young claim the fund’s auditors KPMG should have been aware it was being run fraudulently. They claimed in court papers that many of the loans were “a fabrication and a sham”. 
They say properties valued on the firm’s books at &pound;161million had been sold for just &pound;8million. Investors are unlikely to see any of their money.
Yesterday, the Crown Office said a report in relation to four men aged 41, 44, 54 and 62 “remains under consideration”. Ernst &amp; Young declined to comment.
When Greg King launched his Heather Capital hedge fund in 2004, clients flocked to invest.
The fund then handed huge loans to developers through subsidiary firm Mathon. When Heather went out of business in 2010, accountants found the hedge fund’s cash had been paid in loans to firms with links to controversial businessmen Mario and Carlo Rea, Lawrence Gillick and Allan Stewart.
The loans were secured against derelict land and rundown properties.
Liquidators for Mathon, renamed Harvest, claim their loan book was “a sham designed to conceal the fact earlier funds borrowed from Heather may have been embezzled by one or more of the directors”. A multi-million-pound writ was served on law firm Levy &amp; McRae by Ernst &amp; Young over their role in the scandal.
Their ex senior partner Peter Watson, who was suspended as a sheriff, was briefly a Mathon director.
 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

