IN the penny magazines of the day, they scandalised Victorian society.
Now the incredible story of pioneering gay rights activists Ernest Boulton and Frederick Park has been brought to life by the creator of Taggart.
Writer Glenn Chandler became fascinated with the story of cross-dressers Boulton and Park, and their alter egos Stella and Fanny, while researching another play.
His story reveals how the pair faced the full wrath of the law simply for dressing in women’s clothing.
Fanny and Stella were prosecuted decades before Oscar Wilde was famously convicted of gross indecency. In 1871, they stood trial at the Court of Queen’s Bench in London, after being found sharing a box with two men at the Strand Theatre in London.
But the pair, then in their early 20s, were acquitted, narrowly avoiding a long jail term and hard labour.
Chandler, who wrote for Taggart for more than 15 years, said: “They dressed up as women for amateur theatricals.
 

“But then they would keep their clothes on and go off around London’s West End dressed as women, picking up men.
“This was a good 20 years before Wilde was convicted of gross indecency and sentenced to hard labour.
“I started researching Boulton and Park and delved into their past, thinking they would be a fantastic subject for another project.
“They were stage performers and they looked magnificent, so I decided to make them the subject of a play.”
He added: “They were acquitted, largely because the jury thought it was all a bit of a joke. Nobody could prove their intent, that they were going out dressed as women to pick up men for sex.
“They were very young but if they had been found guilty, they could have gone to prison for many years.
“Boulton formed a theatre company after their acquittal so the play is him and Fanny telling their story to the audience in a kind of musical way.
 

“They’re putting on a show, telling the audience of their ordeal.”
While switching from writing about Glasgow hard men to Victorian transvestites might seem like a bit of a leap, Chandler says it was Taggart that fuelled his interest in real-life crime cases.
He said: “When I was writing Taggart, I got really interested in criminal trials and started going to the Old Bailey to sit in on trials.
“I wrote and produced a short play for Above the Stag Theatre in London five years ago called Cleveland Street The Musical.
 “It was set around a notorious scandal in Victorian London and was about a male brothel which the  grandson of Queen Victoria was reputed to have visited, along with Members of Parliament. 
“It was through that I came across Fanny and Stella.
“Their trial is available to read, yet I had never heard of them.”
 

His play Fanny and Stella – which stars Robert Jeffrey and Marc Gee Finch – is on now at the Above the Stag Theatre in Vauxhall, London.
 Writer Chandler got his big break when he was commissioned by Scottish Television to write a  Glasgow crime series and the pilot of Taggart – starring Mark McManus – aired in 1983. 
It went on to become one of the UK’s longest running TV shows, clocking up an incredible 26 series.
Glenn has some new projects in mind and while he is reluctant to reveal anything just now, he’s certain they will involve crime.
He said: “Once this is up and running, I’ll start to get itchy feet.
“I have a few ideas – something else historical. I’m fascinated by crime.”

