DEVASTATED family and friends paid tribute yesterday to a tragic young uncle who died after a weekend party turned into a bloodbath.
Well-wishers took to social media to mourn the loss of Scott Gillies, 29, from the Priesthill, Glasgow.
Scott, who is described as “a big friendly giant”, died on Saturday morning at the scene of the party above a pub in Partick, despite paramedics’ attempts to save him.
A 23-year-old man has been arrested in connection with his death and will appear at Glasgow Sheriff Court today.
Dozens of tributes have been made online to the doting uncle, who was “always smiling” and was loyal to his friends.
Scott’s heartbroken sister Michelle wrote how she didn’t know how she was going to explain to her daughter that her uncle was gone, while his girlfriend Dana Ayton said she wanted it to be “one horrible dream.”
Scott’s brother Derek Crews said: “Gutted doesn’t even begin to describe how I’m feeling. Can’t believe it. Utter heartbroken. We will meet again some day.”
His cousin Robert Farrell wrote: “I just can’t believe it. I’m just absolutely heartbroken. I’m lying in bed thinking of Scott’s laugh. I’m so sorry, I just can’t get my head around it and looking at his pictures just breaks my heart.
“Scott was just the big friendly giant, always smiling and laughing, he was the best!! RIP big cuz you were my big friendly giant, who gave the best hugs and I will love you always.”
 

Another of Scott’s friends, Conor Harte, said: “No matter what he will always be one of a kind – the Big Yin.”
Johann McIntyre wrote: “RIP Scott you will be sadly missed,” while Samantha Sutherland added: “RIP Scott I can’t believe what I’ve heard today. You will be missed.”
Two others were injured in the incident which occurred in the flat above the popular Dolphin Bar in Partick just before 9am on Saturday.
One, a woman, was kept in Glasgow’s Western Infirmary overnight for observation, and the other, a man, was released after a check-up.
 

Neighbours said they saw a blood-soaked man flee from the property in Benalder Street while a party was being held there.
Stephen McBride, who owns the Dolphin, said: “It’s been a terrible incident. I’ve been here five years and never have I heard any trouble from upstairs.
“I was there from 9.40am on Saturday morning and I saw the ambulances.
“I told police them about the CCTV outside the bar which I’ve now been informed is helping them with their enquiries.”
A Police Scotland spokeswoman said: “A 23-year-old man has been arrested and is presently detained in police custody in connection with the death of a 29 year-old man in Partick on Saturday May 16.
“Around 8.50am on Saturday, a 29-year-old man was found seriously injured in a flat in Benalder Street, Partick, Glasgow. Emergency services attended, however he died at the scene.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

