A FOREIGN student who came to Scotland for a better life is learning to walk and talk again after being left for dead in a horrific assault.
Azeem Mohammed was set upon by teenage thug Daniel Taylor in a random attack on New Year’s Day.
He was left brain-damaged but is battling back to health.
 The marine engineer, from India, said: “Doctors told me I was lucky to be alive. It’s been  a long road, but I’m very thankful to Dr Peter Chan from the Victoria Infirmary in Glasgow and all the nurses who cared for me just like their own son. 
“I see them like the angels sent by God to give me my life back.”
Taylor, who was only 18 at the time, punched Azeem to the ground then kicked him unconscious before telling horrified friends who tried to help him: “Go away, this guy is dead.”
The thug’s girlfriend Melissa McDonald egged him on and laid into Azeem’s pal.
Last month, Taylor was jailed for two-and-a-half years for the attack but he has shown no remorse, even posting messages on Facebook whingeing about the case.
He wrote: “Court the day really canny be a**** to be honest, thank f*** I have the best girlfriend in the world who’s coming with me!!”
Azeem is learning to talk again with the help of dedicated health-care professionals but he is far from fully recovered and remains physicially and emotionally scarred.
He told the Record he is glad his ordeal is over now that Taylor has been locked up – but the brutal beating had changed his life forever. He struggled for more than a year to learn even the basics of speech again and how to carry out day-to-day tasks like holding a cup of tea.
 

The 23-year-old was in a coma for days after the attack and endured months of intense physiotherapy, psychotherapy, speech and occupational therapy.
He said: “Because of my injuries I can’t remember anything from that night but I know now that Taylor approached me when I was walking home with my friends after the bells.
“My friends said I had been walking a few metres behind them on the phone to my mum, when they heard a loud noise and turned round to see Taylor kicking me and Melissa McDonald then punched my friend.
“I had blacked out and when my friends ran to help me, they said Taylor told them, ‘Go away, this guy is dead’.
“Then he just walked away and left me lying unconscious in the street.
“The attack has left me with memory loss and I struggle to remember numbers or my address and I can’t ride a bike or drive a car.
“When I was in hospital, the doctor told my family that because my brain was not functioning properly, they didn’t know if I’d wake up in hours, weeks or ever again.
“When I did wake up, my dad was at my side but I didn’t know what had happened to me and couldn’t even say simple words like mum or dad.
“After the attack I was in hospital, then a rehabilitation centre having physiotherapy, psychotherapy, speech and occupational therapy before being transferred to the Community Centre for Brain Injury, who helped me with co-ordination, motor skills and other basic things again.”
 

Azeem, who was studying at Glasgow Nautical College, sustained life-threatening injuries when Taylor launched a volley of kicks at his head, face and body.
The thug, from Pollokshields, Glasgow, originally faced an attempted murder charge but his plea to the lesser offence of assaulting Azeem to his severe injury and the danger of his life early on January 1, 2014, was accepted by the Crown.
McDonald, 18 – who gave birth to the couple’s first child months before the attack – was sentenced to 50 hours’ community service for punching one of Azeem’s friends and racially abusing an English police officer.
The couple had been drinking when McDonald, then just 16, approached Azeem and his friends.
She punched Gowthamkarthik Panneerselvam while Taylor became aggressive towards Azeem, punching him and knocking him to the ground in the city’s Maxwell Road.
Emergency services arrived at the scene to find Azeem unconscious and unresponsive with obvious swelling to the right side of his head.
 

Sentencing Taylor at the High Court in Edinburgh, judge Lady Wise told him: “You have pled guilty to an extremely serious attack on a young student.
“It is only as a result of extreme good fortune that he made a good physical recovery but it is clear the psychological consequences continue.”
Azeem, who has now returned to India, added: “At first I didn’t know what had happened to me and when my dad finally told me, I was surprised that I had survived it.
“I don’t feel comfortable going anywhere alone now and I’m wary of big crowds as I don’t want any more trouble. Taylor has been punished and I just now want to move on with my life.”
When approached by the Daily Record, a female relative at McDonald’s family home in Pollokshields said the couple did not want to speak about the incident.
She added: “They won’t want this in the paper.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

