ANOTHER weekend, another early start, and out with the trainers on.
Now, before you think I’ve gone all Gwyneth Paltrow, let me assure you that yet again I could quite happily have turned over and gone back to sleep when the alarm went off yesterday morning.
It was Sunday, for goodness sake, and there are no green juices getting served in my kitchen.
But this time every year I drag myself round the south side of Glasgow with another 7000 brave souls in the Morrisons Great Women’s 10k.
Training didn’t go exactly to plan. Last weekend, I did the Race for Life and, as I coughed and spluttered my way over the line, I vowed to have a quiet week, stay in, enjoy early nights, run in the morning and eat well.
It was all going swimmingly until, well Tuesday, and a beer tasting night, or networking on behalf of the paper as we like to call it.
Running the morning after a night of sampling ales isn’t really the life of an athlete is it?
By the time it got to Friday, I realised a quick three miles before work wasn’t really going to make any difference but I did it anyway.
Then it was off to the Daily Record Our Heroes Awards and if I needed any inspiration to make an effort yesterday then I didn’t have to look very far.
The room was packed with the very best of people. Among them was Maria Lyle, 15, who has cerebral palsy and had to wear splints on her legs as a child.
Now? She’s a double world record holder and almost certainly heading off to the Paralympics next year with real medal prospects.
Something tells me she won’t be staying out until 4am on a Saturday morning when she has a race on Sunday, even when she is old enough to drink.
I didn’t ask her for any last-minute tips – it was genuinely too late.
But I got all the motivation I needed to run through the rain when I met up with the wonderful Arlene Clark at the start line.
Arlene set up the charity Brightest Star after the death of her son Jack, just six days short of his sixth birthday.
She wants to do all she can to make life easier for other bereaved parents.
It was an honour to be part of the 200 strong Jack’s Army and such a boost when the fund’s cheerleaders out on the course spotted his picture on my back and shouted encouragement.
As I watched Arlene cross the finish line, the emotion of the moment overwhelming her, it made me understand the real power of human spirit.
People like Arlene and Maria are rare in this world but there were many of them who crossed that finish line yesterday morning.
I am proud to have been among them.

