More than 25,000 people have signed an online petition to reinstate the late nightclub licence at the Arches venue.
Last week, Glasgow Licensing Board ruled the venue must close at midnight, effectively ending its ability to run as a nightclub until 03:00.
The decision came after persistent police complaints about drug and alcohol-related incidents.
The petition said this would endanger the city's arts scene and economy and accused the police of &quot;harassment&quot;.
&quot;On the 15th May 2015, Glasgow City Council revoked the nightclub licence from The Arches - one of Scotland's biggest and most successful cultural venues,&quot; the petition states.
&quot;This has followed months of harassment of the venue by Police Scotland, regarding apparent failures to act upon instances of drug misuse in the club, as well as some alcohol related offences. 
&quot;The Arches has attempted to address the concerns of the police on numerous occasions, but has been repeatedly threatened with the loss of its licence despite attempts to resolve the issues raised.&quot; 
The petition claims the venue &quot;makes more effort than any club in the city to keep people safe&quot; and is also a &quot;world-leading arts venue&quot;.
It adds: &quot;The arts operations are largely funded by the income generated from club nights held at the venue, and this latest move by Police Scotland and the Glasgow City Council Licensing Board severely threatens a vital part of the Scottish arts ecology, and the livelihoods of the venue's many employees.&quot;
The petition calls for the re-instatement of the Arches' club licence &quot;without delay&quot;.
Last month, police made a bid to have the club closed after a woman was found unconscious and officers recorded 26 drug and alcohol-related incidents.
It was rejected after a lawyer for the Arches argued this was inappropriate.
Last year, the Arches announced it was raising its minimum age for admission to 21 after the suspected drug-related death of a teenage girl who fell ill there, but the over 18s policy was later reinstated.
Regane MacColl, 17, died after becoming ill at the club in February 2014. Police linked her death to an ecstasy-like &quot;Mortal Kombat&quot; tablet.
