ROS NASH was a successful magazine editor – until she had a nervous breakdown.
 Her high-stress lifestyle took such a toll that she wound up in a locked ward of Glasgow’s Stobhill hospital, plagued by irrational fears and delusions. 
It’s rare for people sectioned under the Mental Health Act to talk about it but she believes it’s important to shine a light on the tricky issue of mental health.
Ros said: “It was a really frightening experience. Most of the people around me had been in and out of psychiatric wards with long-term problems.
 “Once I was conscious of where I was, I was scared of the other patients. I thought some of them were undercover nurses. It was really scary.” Now Ros, 38, from Dumfries, has written a book about her ordeal, What’s Up With Ros? 
Researching it, her hospital notes made alarming reading. Ros said: “I was quite shocked by some of my behaviours. It was really strange stuff.”
She confused her husband with the hospital staff and kept asking for Nurse Rab. Then she thought the whole thing was an elaborate prank and her friends would jump out from behind a curtain at any minute.
At one point, she climbed on top of her wardrobe and despite being a successful journalist, she forgot how to spell.
 The Tommy Sheridan trial, which was a big story when she was in hospital in 2010, was very much on her mind. 
Ros wrote: “I’m sure it’s my fault he’s in all this trouble. I am so disturbed by thoughts of getting Tommy into trouble that I can’t concentrate on what I’m supposed to be doing.
“Even the simplest things – cleaning my teeth, getting dressed – are beyond me.”
Ros spent three weeks in the locked ward and when she got out, she decided to give up the career that had put her under such intolerable pressure.
She said: “I decided to chuck in my job. We sold our flat in Glasgow, bought a campervan and travelled all over Europe, as far as the Arctic circle.”
 

She and Rab now have a baby daughter, Zoe, and are planning a move to Caithness – and writing has helped Ros draw a line under what happened to her.
She said: “I’m also hoping that my book will help tackle the stigma that still clearly surrounds mental health.
“I’d love it if we could think of the brain as an organ just like any other. Brains play up like kidneys and hearts and ears. I think of my brain as a computer that needed rebooting.
“In the week before I went into hospital I’d been working really hard. I’d barely slept.
“I remember thinking if I can just make it to Christmas, I’ll be okay. But I didn’t make it.
“Without sleep, my brain stopped functioning properly.
“I was in a pretty bad way when I was admitted. I found it difficult to remember what was happening. I kept thinking the hospital wasn’t real, that the doctors and nurses were actors who were all in on a big joke.
“I had the odd moment of lucidity but I also thought some really weird things. I thought I was a terrible abusive person who was being punished for committing a heinous crime.
“I thought my husband was gay. I thought I was a boy who was just pretending to be a girl.
“I want to prove that life goes on. I am only just back from maternity leave at the moment but I’m really enjoying being a mum to Zoe. She’s probably changed me as much as the hospital experience.”
And she added: “I’m learning to be less of a perfectionist too.”
 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

