A Paisley barber is aiming to show he’s a cut above ... by roping in 20 of his own customers to act as models for an industry showcase.
Davie Walker is taking part in The Great British Barber Bash when it comes to Glasgow this summer.
The event will show off the skills of new and established barbers and Davie – owner of Davie The Barber, in the town’s Causeyside Street – has lined up regulars to model his hair-trimming skills.
He said: “I will have between 15 and 20 models at the showcase. We are doing a Peaky Blinders 1950s type of style with sharp clothes, waistcoats and a slicked-back look.
“We will add a bit of Scotland in to the mix too.
“I am very excited about it all, especially because we aren’t using professional models and are using customers from Paisley.”
Davie’s models will be prepped and dressed before hitting the stage at the Drygate brewery in Glasgow on Sunday, July 12, where their hair will be razor finished, dried and styled.
The aim of the Great British Barber Bash is to bring the top talent in the industry together, show off their skills on stage, chill out together and enjoy some music and a beer.
Show producer Garry Spencer said: “We bring these shows to several locations in the UK and they are cool barbering events with teams from around the world performing on stage.
“It is all about getting people inspired and motivated to do different things.
“Davie is our Breakthrough Team – these are barbers who are passionate and really good at what they do.
“They will get up and do a presentation for 45 minutes with their models and show off different looks they create.”
The Drygate event is the first time the Great British Barber Bash has come to Scotland, and guests include New York celebrity barber Sid Sottung and Glasgow’s Rebel Rebel.
Davie is looking for a Renfrewshire firm to supply three-piece suits and kilts for the models.
“It would be a free ad for the company. They will get coverage on social media in the run-up to the event and from magazines on the day,” he added.
“If we could get a Paisley firm on board that would be great.”
Tickets for the event cost &pound;25 and you can get these from www.greatbritishbarbersbash.co.uk/ and via Facebook at www.facebook.com/great britishbarberbash
