A FORMER drug addict today admitted telling police that a murder plot accused had asked him if he could obtain a gun.
The High Court in Glasgow heard that 28-year-old Blair Bell gave a statement claiming that in October 2013 he gave his friend Robert Telfer and Paul Sands a lift to Asda in Prestwick, Ayrshire.
During that drive he initially told police that &quot;Sands once asked me where I could get a gun, but I didn't entertain him.&quot;
But, in a second police interview Mr Bell claimed that he wasn't sure if it was Sands or Mr Telfer who had mentioned guns.
In evidence today, Mr Bell was asked by prosecutor Paul Kearney: &quot;Who asked you to source a gun,&quot; and replied: &quot;One of them Robert Telfer or Paul Sands.&quot;
Mr Kearney asked: &quot;What type of gun was it,&quot; and Mr Bell replied: &quot;It was never mentioned.&quot;
The prosecutor then asked: &quot;What was the gun for,&quot; and Mr Bell said: &quot;It was never mentioned.&quot;
Mr Bell was giving evidence at the trial of Antoin Duffy, 39 – also known as Anton – Martin Hughes, 36, Sands, 31, and John Gorman, 58, deny conspiring to murder Johnny “Mad Dog” Adair and Sam “Skelly” McCrory – once high profile figures in the loyalist organisation and its military wing the Ulster Freedom Fighters.
 

It is also claimed Duffy and Gorman were allegedly part of a plan to murder the governor of Barlinnie jail Derek McGill in a car bomb attack.
Three other men – Craig Convery, 37, Gary Convery, 34, and Gordon Brown, 29, – deny organised crime charges.
Defence QC Donald Findlay, representing Sands, suggested to Mr Bell that the conversation about a gun never took place, but he denied this was the case.
When asked why people would think he knew how to source a gun and replied that he boasted to a friend about being shown a gun by Gambian drug dealers in 2007.
He told the court that the Gambians were called Disco Dave, Mo and Sidu and claimed he met them in a pub in Ayr.
Mr Bell told the court that he drove these three men between Glasgow and Ayr around 2007 and claimed that on one occasion they took him into their flat and there was a gun on the table.
He was asked how often he had discussed guns with the Gambians and replied: &quot;Four or five times.&quot;
He said he had mentioned this to a friend and added: &quot;I was boasting about it.&quot;
All seven men on trial deny the charges against them.
The trial before judge Lady Scott continues.
More news from the courts

