A long-term study has praised the impact of &quot;Big Noise&quot; orchestra schemes in Stirling and Govanhill.
Researchers from the Glasgow Centre for Population Health said the orchestra projects were helping change the lives of children and strengthen communities.
Stirling's orchestra, based in Raploch since 2008, works with 470 local children from toddlers to teenagers.
The research team said the projects had the potential to &quot;significantly enhance participants' lives in the long term&quot;.
They looked at the economic, education and community impacts of the Big Noise schemes, which are overseen by Sistema Scotland and were inspired by a free music tuition programme in Venezuela.
Researchers found that children taking part had higher school attendance, improved language, handwriting and other skills, and improved confidence.
They noted that the scheme could enhance participants' lives, prospects, health and well-being in the long term, and that more significant findings would be possible in the years ahead as the first children to take part in Raploch sit their exams and leave school.
The second Scottish Big Noise orchestra was founded in Govanhill in Glasgow in 2013.
Sistema Scotland chairman Richard Holloway said: &quot;Today's findings by independent experts show very conclusively that these orchestras can make a better Scotland - a fairer and happier country with the potential of its children fully realised.
&quot;The heroes in all of this. though, are the children in Raploch and Govanhill who are showing us all the way.&quot;
Stirling's project was praised for &quot;exceptional achievement&quot; by government inspectors earlier this year, and in 2014 pupils from Raploch travelled to Venezuela to perform a concert in the home of El Sistema.
Local authority leader Johanna Boyd said the study was a &quot;fantastic endorsement of Big Noise and everything it has done for Raploch&quot;.
She added: &quot;At Stirling Council we are immensely proud to have been a key partner of Big Noise Raploch since its launch in 2008.
&quot;These findings confirm what we already knew - that Big Noise is about so much more than the music, and our young people are learning confidence and resilience that will help them succeed across all areas of their lives.&quot;
