GLASGOW WARRIORS have signed Fijian flying machine Taqele Naiyaravoro to bolster their attacking options for next season.
The uncapped 23-year-old has agreed a three-year deal and will arrive from NSW Warataha this summer.
It's another exciting addition for the Scotstoun side and Naiyaravoro admits he can’t wait to relocate his family to Scotland.
He said: &quot;Glasgow have been talking to me for a while and opened the door for me, so I'm happy to have signed a long-term contract with the club. I'm looking forward to moving to Glasgow with my family to continue my development.
&quot;They are a strong team and it's really exciting to get the opportunity to move over there and play my rugby in Scotland next season.
&quot;It's been great playing with the likes of Adam Ashley-Cooper and Kurtley Beale at the Waratahs this season. They've been really helpful and I've learnt a lot from them.
&quot;It will be a new challenge for me to play in the Guinness PRO12 and compete against the best sides in Europe in the Champions Cup.&quot;
Warriors head coach Gregor Townsend insists the Fijian has been his sights for a while and he’s confident the winger will be a crowd pleasing recruit for his side.
He said: &quot;Taqele is a very exciting signing for our club.
&quot;We've been tracking him for a number of months and we know there has been a lot of speculation about his future, so we're delighted that we can finally announce that he will become a Glasgow Warriors player in the summer.
&quot;Taqele has made a real impact since joining the Waratahs last season and has the potential to become one of the best wingers in the Guinness PRO12.
&quot;His sheer size and strength will give us another option in our back-line and I'm sure he will be an excellent addition to our squad.
&quot;He has a great attitude and desire to work and improve and we'd like to thank Scottish Rugby for their support in securing a player of Taqele's quality.
&quot;We look forward to him joining us at the end of the season and we know he'll be with us regardless of any international commitments.”
