A GIFTED teenager believes she was rejected by Scotland’s top medical schools because she is from a deprived area.
Joanne Martin, 18, left Glasgow’s Springburn Academy with the minimum necessary exam passes to train as a doctor.
But she was rejected by Glasgow, Edinburgh, Aberdeen and Dundee universities.
And it was only after she took a three-month-trip to Ghana to teach health and hygiene and did an Open University course to beef up her application that she was finally offered a conditional place at Aberdeen.
Joanne, whose mum is a part-time cleaner, believes the system is weighted in favour of private school pupils or those in middle- class areas whose parents have experience of higher education and who can afford private tuition.
Recent figures show medicine and vet schools have the lowest entry levels for pupils from deprived areas and just over 12 per cent of students accepted on courses in 2013-14 came from Scotland’s most deprived areas.
Joanne, from Possilpark, has always dreamed of becoming a doctor.
Her ultimate aim is to work in Africa to help prevent disease and educate people on improving their health.
She said: “I stuck in at school, worked very hard and studied a lot and I was over the moon when I obtained the grades I need for medical school.”
But she discovered grades were not enough and her attempts to get work experience were routinely ignored by the medical profession.
She contacted more than 60 doctors but only one of them offered to help, giving her one day in a biochemistry lab.
 She said: “It was very difficult to compete with other candidates who have doctors in their  extended fanilies and who have built up weeks of work experience.” 
 

When Joanne was rejected, she felt “crushed” and the feedback from the medical schools did not help her to understand why she failed to make the grade.
But she believes she was rejected because of her background when all she wanted was to be treated the same as the other students.
Vonnie Sandlan, president elect of the National Union of Students in Scotland, said the question of access to education for young people from deprived area needed to be addressed urgently.
She said: “This is not the first time we have seen someone not getting into university because they come from a poor background. We see it year after year and it is extremely frustrating.
 “We have to realise people in areas like Possilpark are not going to have opportunities to  participate in high-end extra-curricular activities. We need to have fair access to these courses.” 
Sandlan also highlighted the even greater obstacles children who have been in care face in getting to university.
They can miss out on outreach programmes available to those living in deprived areas.
She said: “Deprived areas are judged on the Scottish Index of Multiple Deprivation but most children in care do not live in these areas if they are fostered or minded and they have even less chance of getting to university.
“Actually there is more chance of them seeing the inside of a prison than a university and something needs to be done for these children as well.”
Claudia Macdonald, of charity Who Cares Scotland, said: “We wholly support the widening access agenda and believe it’s vital to ensure people from all backgrounds can access university education.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

