YOU'D be forgiven for wondering if bosses at B&amp;Q have been overcome by the paint fumes.
It’s hard to see any other logical explanation for their despicable decision to sack war hero Ivor Smith.
The 82-year-old fought in Malaya in the 1950s and has dedicated his retirement to working at the DIY superstore.
B&amp;Q bosses even crowned him an old age marvel for being one their best and oldest employees.
Yet they sacked him when he left a till unattended for three-and-a-half minutes. At the very least the plucky pensioner deserved a second chance.
Ivor has again shown his courage by taking big business to an employment tribunal.
His story is also a prime example of the disgraceful way big employers are able to treat their staff under this Tory Government.
Thousands of workers are now trapped in zero hour contracts with companies that care little for the needs of their staff.
Others are on the poverty line with wages that fall way below what it is possible to live on thanks to a minimum wage level that is just not enough.
Meanwhile, David Cameron and George Osborne are planning to make it easier for firms to sack their workers.
New Conservative Business Secretary Sajid Javid has already said the UK Government will launch a vicious attack on striking rights as a priority now they have a majority.
The right-wing Tory press would have you believe that trade unions are the scourge of Britain.
In reality, we’ve never needed them more.
 Curing wealth gap 
THE hurdles that poorer Scots face to get ahead are a constant reminder of how unequal our society is.
For student Joanne Martin of Possilpark, Glasgow, those barriers almost destroyed her dream of becoming a doctor.
Joanne is a bright young woman who clearly worked hard at school to get the necessary grades. But she was still rejected by top universities.
Scotland is full of sons and daughters of privilege who are able to call on family friends to get their foot in the door.
It’s not so easy when you live in the country’s second most disadvantaged area and you don’t have the right contacts.
A survey showed only five per cent of medical and veterinary students came from the poorest neighbourhoods in 2013-14. What a shocking indictment.
Joanne pulled out all the stops to boost her CV. She worked in Ghana and took on an extra Open University course, before finally getting an offer to study medicine at Aberdeen University.
All of this highlights how being bright isn’t always enough.
For those less fortunate, there always seems to be just one more obstacle to pass.
Joanne’s persistence is remarkable, and her success should be saluted.
We wish her well on the journey to getting her dream job.
