One of four men accused of plotting to kill two former UDA leaders in Scotland told his girlfriend he was &quot;trying to get a war started&quot;, a court has heard.
Anton Duffy made the remarks to Stacey McAllister at his home in Glasgow which was bugged and recorded by police. 
On a tape played in court, Mr Duffy is also heard to say: &quot;I need to get this Johnny Adair shot first.&quot;
Mr Duffy, 39, John Gorman, 58, Paul Sands, 31 and Martin Hughes, 36, deny a plot to kill Mr Adair and Sam McCrory.
The High Court in Glasgow has already heard that Mr Adair and his best friend Mr McCrory were both former members of prohibited Loyalist terror organisations the Ulster Defence Association (UDA) and its paramilitary wing the Ulster Freedom Fighters (UFF).
They were involved in the Good Friday agreement in 1998 which brought peace to Northern Ireland, and both have been living in Ayrshire for a number of years.
On Tuesday, the court heard a tape of the bugged conversations which took place on 1 September 2013, after Mr Duffy had returned from the Brazen Head pub in Glasgow. 
Mr Duffy is heard to say: &quot;I'm trying to get a war started and get as many guns and explosives as I can.&quot; 
Seconds later he said: &quot;I need to get this Johnny Adair shot first, know what I mean.&quot; 
On 2 September 2013, Mr Duffy was heard on tape saying to Ms McAllister: &quot;I'm not asking for permission, I'm setting up on my own. I'll do the IRA proud.&quot; 
On an earlier tape from August 2013, Mr Duffy was heard to say to co-accused Mr Hughes: &quot;We can stand with the best of them in history.&quot;
Referring to a possible target, he said this was someone &quot;that killed 50 of our people&quot;.
Mr Hughes replied: &quot;Have to get him before he gets ours.&quot; 
On another tape secretly recorded by police on 3 September 2013, Mr Duffy's girlfriend Ms McAllister asked him who he had spoken to on the phone and he replied that it was Sean McShane. 
Mr Duffy added: &quot;Sean did six or seven years in connection with the Brighton bombing when Thatcher was blown up, blown up or nearly blown up.&quot;
It is also claimed Mr Duffy and Mr Gorman were allegedly part of a plan to murder the governor of Barlinnie jail Derek McGill in a car bomb attack. 
Three other men - Craig Convery, 37, Gary Convery, 34, and Gordon Brown, 29, - deny organised crime charges. 
The trial before judge Lady Scott continues.
