The Andy Coulson perjury trial has begun hearing evidence which the former News of the World editor gave at the 2010 perjury trial of Tommy Sheridan.
Mr Coulson, 47, was called as a witness and questioned by Mr Sheridan during the case.
He is accused of lying when he told the jury he did not know one of the paper's journalists and a private investigator were involved in phone hacking.
Mr Coulson denies the charge at the High Court in Edinburgh. 
The jury was played a recording from Mr Coulson's testimony from his appearance in December 2010 at the trial of the former Scottish Socialist MSP.
In the recording, Mr Coulson, a former Downing Street head of communications, said he stepped down from the News of the World as he took &quot;ultimate responsibility&quot; for phone hacking.
He is heard insisting that he had &quot;no knowledge&quot; of phone hacking until the arrests of Glenn Mulcaire, a private investigator, and journalist Clive Goodman in 2006.
On tape, Mr Coulson is asked if he knew about payments made to corrupt police officers and replied: &quot;Not to my knowledge.&quot;
He also denied having heard recordings of Mr Sheridan's voice via private investigators.
Mr Coulson said he would not dispute that Mr Mulcaire's consultancy was being paid around &pound;100,000 but his &quot;only involvement&quot; was in trying to reduce this bill.
On the Mulcaire consultancy work, Mr Coulson said he &quot;expected it to be legitimate, legal work, the kind that every newspaper and media organisation carries out&quot;.
On the tape Mr Coulson is also heard agreeing that revelations of phone hacking were &quot;shocking&quot;, saying his concern was that the newspaper cooperated with police.
The indictment alleges Mr Coulson made false claims on 9 and 10 December 2010 while he was a witness at Mr Sheridan's perjury trial and lied about knowing a journalist and private investigator employed by the News of the World who were involved in &quot;phone hacking&quot;.
It claims that Mr Coulson falsely stated that before the arrest of private investigator Glenn Mulcaire and News of the World journalist Clive Goodman in 2006, he did not know that Goodman was involved in phone hacking with Mulcaire.
It also alleges he falsely said he did not know that payments were made to Mulcaire by Goodman and that he did not know of Mulcaire's &quot;illegal activities&quot; or have any email exchanges with Goodman in relation to Mulcaire.
The Crown further alleges that Mr Coulson falsely stated that he did not know of Mulcaire, had not heard his name and did not know that he was employed by the News of the World.
It is claimed Mr Coulson falsely said he had no knowledge of payments being made to corrupt police officers by staff at the News of the World while he was employed as an editor there.
The trial before Lord Burns continues. 
