CURLED up on the sofa with her little dog and lighting up the room with her laugh, Morven McKendrick looks the picture of happiness.
When she chases Mila across the floor, only a slight limp gives any sign of the medical traumas that have &shy;dominated her life.
The energetic dog is a lifeline for Morven, who was given the schnauzer to distract her from the pain caused by Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome.
The nine-year-old was born with the rare disorder, which affects her foot, leg, veinous and lymphatic system and has required constant pain medication and more than 20 procedures.
Morven said: “Usually when I get up in the morning, I have pain in my left foot or my leg and Mila comes running up. She’s mad.
“She really helps me. If I ever get sore, she will come and bring my toys over to me because that’s her present to me.
“She loves going out for a walk and I take her down the street. When I had my big cast, I couldn’t walk for a while, so Mila trapped me because she wanted lots of cuddles.”
Morven is progressing well after her most recent surgery – a five-hour &shy;operation to amputate three toes, remove a growth and huge blood clot from her foot and help straighten the leg by clipping tendons.
 

Her parents Claire, 40, and Paul, 43, are amazed. Claire said: “She is brilliant and we’re so proud of her. She just gets on with things and I don’t know how she does it.
“She has endured more in her life than most people do in a lifetime but she is always smiling and is so strong.”
There had been no signs that anything might be wrong during the pregnancy but the illness soon became obvious when she was born.
She had a port wine stain from her left hip to her toes, and her left foot and leg were far larger than the right.
Claire said: “At first, I was cuddling her next to me and I looked down at her and she was so beautiful and I didn’t see anything wrong.
“I might have been deluding myself but the midwife could see her leg underneath my arms and said they had to take her away for testing.
“I was in such shock and couldn’t believe it. They whipped her away into special care.
“A few days later we got the &shy;diagnosis of Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome. It’s a very rare disorder and we had difficulty getting information.

“Some kids can have KTS where it affects all their internal organs and can have a devastating impact, and be prone to sudden death.
“We had to wait six weeks to find out and the MRI showed she was of moderate severity but it can progress and change as she grows.”
The illness, which affects one in 40,000 children, leads to duplication of veins, varicose veins, swelling and lymphatic malformations.
The diagnosis led to a succession of &shy;treatments.
At 14 months, she had a &shy;malformation removed from her abdomen at Yorkhill hospital in Glasgow and when she was two, she visited Boston Children’s Hospital in the US for consultations. She then began &shy;treatment at Great Ormond Street Hospital in London.
During her early years she suffered constant pain, swelling and discomfort. Her haemangioma port wine stain became covered with sores which would bleed and open up, frightening her parents.
Claire said: “Paul and I used to have to do night shifts, just watching her sleep, because a couple of times we went in to feed her in the night and there was blood everywhere.
“There was also arterial bleeding, where blood was pulsing out of her.”
She had a painful &shy;procedure to cauterize the wounds. She also had two toes amputated, and had regular &shy;sclerotherapy, where ultrasound is used to guide tiny needles into the spaces between veins.

Last year Morven, who is in P5 at Mosshead Primary in Bearsden, East Dunbartonshire, was mainly confined to a &shy;wheelchair.
Today she is in the late recovery stages of her most recent major surgery. While she is still in constant pain, she has ditched her chair and is getting intensive physio to aid her walking.
She will need more surgery and therapy, and Morven may decide to have cosmetic surgery or laser &shy;treatments when she is older. Her courage has seen her nominated for an Inspirational Child award by her doctors and nurses.
Claire and Paul have been so impressed by the care she has received that they have launched a campaign to buy ultrasound &shy;equipment for Great Ormond Street.
They will host a fundraising night next week which will double as a belated birthday party, as she missed out this year due to being in hospital.
The last nine years have often been &shy;traumatic for the couple but they are the first to admit that it’s all part of their job as parents.
Claire said: “One of the most &shy;important things is that Morven’s life is not defined by her condition.
“Last year was so frustrating for us because it was getting like that.
“We have redressed that balance, and she is still in recovery, but we are on the way.”
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

