FORMER Radio 1 presenter Edith Bowman is hosting a new weekly music show on BBC Radio Scotland.
Edith will present The Quay Sessions, which launches in early June with Scots group Texas as her first guests.
The new weekly music performance show debuts on Thursday June 4 as part of BBC Scotland’s pop-up music festival, BBC Music at the Quay (4-8 June). The music festival has BBC Music Day (Friday 5th June) at the heart of its celebrations - a nationwide celebration of music, which aims to bring people together across generations and communities through their love of music.
Airing every Thursday on BBC Radio Scotland between 9.00-11.00pm, The Quay Sessions will feature interviews and music performances, pre-recorded on Wednesdays evenings in front of a live audience on ‘The Quay Stage’ against a Glasgow backdrop in BBC Scotland’s Pacific Quay reception. Tickets for each show will be available at bbc.co.uk/thequay
Edith Bowman is thrilled to host BBC Scotland’s new weekly music show.
She said: “I can't wait to start The Quay Sessions. Having two hours every week on BBC Radio Scotland to celebrate live music is a dream. The show is going to be our very own gig made up of the most wonderful mixture of homegrown and international artists. Scotland has such a wealth of musical talent - it's so exciting to have the opportunity to showcase that.”
Jeff Zycinski , Head of Radio at BBC Scotland, added: “This new weekly programme on BBC Radio Scotland will be an exciting showcase for new and established talent. We have a brilliant team of producers in Glasgow and everyone one of them is keen to ensure the programme covers the breadth of genres where live music is flourishing.
“Having Edith Bowman as the presenter is the icing on the cake, because she'll bring her own wit, warmth and passion to the show. I can't think of a better week to launchThe Quay Sessions than during this special week when we're celebrating so much of what the BBC offers music lovers.&quot;
As part of the BBC Music at the Quay celebrations, The Quay Sessions will broadcast twice during this special five day music festival – a special pre-recorded show on Wednesday 3rd June followed by another show on Saturday 6th June. Guests for the Saturday show to be announced.
Over 60 artists will take part in the BBC Music at the Quay pop-up festival from Thursday June 4 to Monday June8 , as part of more than 50 events over the five days. BBC Music at the Quay will showcase an eclectic range of music from jazz to traditional, emerging new talent to established acts, highlighting Scotland’s unique and varied musical landscape. Every BBC Radio Scotland music show will be part of the celebrations with special performances, Q&amp;As and must-see music events. All tickets for BBC Music at the Quay events are free while the City Halls Concert tickets range from &pound;10-&pound;25.bbc.co.uk/thequay
 Try your hand at our showbiz quiz 

