AFTER many months of a general election campaign, coming hard on the heels of the referendum, I suspect you will be pleased to hear that this column makes no reference to party politics.
As city leader I am proud of the fact that Glasgow’s international reputation has never been higher. The world’s leading publications and renowned travel guides consistently rank Glasgow as a must-visit destination. This reinforces our position as Scotland’s creative, cultural and sporting capital and one of Europe’s most vibrant, dynamic and stylish cities.
This isn’t simply the result of 2014 and the best ever Commonwealth Games. For the last decade we have been highly successful in our efforts to promote Glasgow around the world as the ideal place to come for a weekend city-break, to hold a conference, or to study in one of our three world class universities or colleges.
I chair Glasgow City Marketing Bureau, which over the last 10 years has secured more than 3,300 UK and international conferences for Glasgow. This has brought more than &pound;1.2 billion of investment to the city. This is money which is spent in our shops, hotels, taxis, restaurants and bars, securing jobs for tens of thousands of Glaswegians. There are currently more people employed in the tourism industry in Glasgow than have been employed in the shipyards in my lifetime, highlighting the importance of leisure and business tourism to our economy.
As well as attracting businesses and conferences to the city, we are one of the world’s leading venues for major events. These help to raise our profile further and support thousands of jobs. In 2015 alone we will welcome the World Gymnastics Championship, the Turner Prize, and the British Athletics International competition to the city.
Looking ahead we will play host to the World Irish Dancing Championships, 2018 European Championships, 2020 World Men’s Curling Championships and UEFA Euro 2020. This is only possible because we have invested in world class venues, such as the SSE Hydro and Emirates Arena, coupled with the professionalism and friendly attitude of our people.
And our pride in our people is shown by our unique and award-winning city branding. People Make Glasgow is the only city brand in the world that puts people, our greatest asset, at the heart of our marketing. When we launched the brand we wanted to capture the spirit, passion and energy of our city. It has been embraced by Glaswegians, businesses in the city and a global audience. And bluntly, when we say People Make Glasgow, who could disagree?
***
GLASGOW is an enterprising city. We have always built things and traded with the world. And I am keen to do what I can to grow the number of job-creating businesses in the city. That is why Glasgow was the first council in the country to support the wonderful work of the Entreupreneurial Spark (eSpark) organisation, based in the Gorbals.
Many people have a bright idea that they would like to turn into a business but they need some help and support to get it off the ground. That’s where eSpark comes in by providing accommodation and intensive support from some of Scotland’s most experienced and successful entrepreneurs.
Just last week eSpark was recognised as the most successful organisation of its kind in Europe. They worked with 352 new business start-ups in 2014. More than 1,000 jobs have been created by eSpark companies
I consider the funding our council provides to budding entrepreneurs to be a sound investment in our city’s economic future. I look forward to hearing about more success as eSpark expands from its base in Glasgow to support new businesses throughout the UK.
