A man is to stand trial charged with the 1998 murder of Surjit Singh Chhokar in North Lanarkshire.
A previous hearing at the High Court in Glasgow heard of doubts over whether Ronnie Coulter, 46, would be fit to stand trial on mental health grounds. 
A hearing on Wednesday was told this had now been resolved and Mr Coulter would be in a position to be tried. 
Another hearing was set for 30 June. Mr Chhokar, 32, of Overtown, died after being stabbed.
Mr Coulter's QC Donald Findlay told Wednesday's hearing: &quot;It is now clear that he will be fit to stand trial at some point in time.&quot; 
A date in June had been provisionally set, but Mr Findlay added there was &quot;no prospect&quot; of a trial going ahead then as defence inquiries were ongoing. 
This included the examination of 80 hours of CCTV evidence. 
The court heard it could be into next year before a trial begins due to Mr Findlay's commitments in other cases. 
Prosecutors allege Mr Coulter was acting with two other men - Andrew Coulter and David Montgomery - at the time of the alleged attack. 
The murder charge includes claims Mr Chhokar was punched and prevented from defending himself. 
He is then said to have been hit with a wooden baton before Mr Coulter repeatedly struck him with a knife and killed him. 
It is further alleged that Mr Coulter, of Wishaw, &quot;did previously envince malice and ill-will&quot; towards Mr Chhokar. 
Mr Coulter is then accused of attempting to defeat the ends of justice - which include claims he got another man to hide clothes worn during the alleged murder and a case of knives. 
Mr Coulter is further accused of later attempting to pervert the course of justice with &quot;intent to avoid &quot;detection, arrest, prosecution and conviction&quot;. 
He also faces earlier claims that on the day of the alleged murder, he forged the signature of Mr Chhokar to help cash a &pound;100 giro cheque. 
He is then accused of joining Andrew Coulter to break into Mr Chhokar's home and steal a cooker. 
