THE man accused of plotting to kill Johnny 'Mad Dog' Adair asked Celtic striker Anthony Stokes for help getting guns, a court was told today.
Antoin Duffy approached the player in the Brazen Head pub to ask if his father could help him get his hands on a supply of firearms, it was claimed yesterday.
The High Court in Glasgow heard that regulars of the Glasgow pub, which is popular with Celtic fans, reacted with fury to the request.
The revelations were recorded in a bugged conversation with Duffy's girlfriend Stacey McAllister that he had walked up to striker Anthony Stokes and asked him to get his father to speak to someone about guns.
Duffy's home in Old Castle Road, Glasgow, was bugged by police from August to October, 2013.
He was also followed and on September 1, 2013, he returned from drinking at the Brazen Head.
 

In a tape played to the jury of 10 women and five men on his return from the pub Duffy is heard to say: &quot;I wanted to go and talk to Anthony Stokes and see if his dad could get a message to Donzo about these f***ing weapons.
&quot;I seen Anthony Stokes tonight and ah says listen I need to talk to your dad and then everybody started jumping in going uh blah, blah, blah, know what I mean. They're singing songs and all this carry on saying you can't do this. I said leave me alone. Not one of them has ever had to go on an operation where they got shot.&quot;
Detective Constable Ross Arnott ,who was involved in the surveillance operation, was asked by QC Derek Ogg, defending Duffy: &quot;We heard how Mr Duffy approached Anthony Stokes the Celtic footballer and was angry when there was a big reaction. He approached Anthony Stokes to ask if he could speak to his dad to speak to somebody else about guns and everyone seemed to take exception to this,&quot; and replied: &quot;Yes.&quot;
Mr Ogg then said: &quot;Throughout the tapes we hear Mr Duffy refer to his crazy behaviour and taking Tramadol,&quot; and DC Arnott replied: &quot;That's correct.&quot;
The court heard that police recorded 1300 hours of covert tapes during the operation codenamed Operation Hairsplitter.
Mr Ogg revealed that initially all the excerpts from the tapes given to defence teams excluded any reference to Duffy's addiction to Tramadol.
The QC said to DC Arnott: &quot;Originally, the security services did not wish to release to us any recordings with references to Tramadol and my client's addiction to it, why was this,&quot; and the police officer replied: &quot;The discussion was made by senior officers that the information originally released was sufficient for disclosure purposes.&quot;
The jury heard that in the tapes finally released there were numerous references to Duffy being sick due to Tramodol.
Duffy, 39 - also known as Anton - Martin Hughes, 36, Sands, 31 and John Gorman, 58 , deny conspiring to murder Mr Adair and Mr McCrory - once high profile figures in the loyalist organisation UDA and its military wing the Ulster Freedom Fighters.
Duffy and Gorman also deny being part of a plan to murder the governor of Barlinnie jail Derek McGill in a car bomb attack.
Three other men - Craig Convery, 37, Gary Convery, 34, and Gordon Brown, 29, - deny organised crime charges.
The trial before judge Lady Scott continues.
More courts news

