I CHECKED out a few films last week. Avengers was quite good, although I always come to the end of a superhero film thinking, “Wouldn’t it be nice to get through a blockbuster where, after an entire town is destroyed, everyone doesn’t develop a strange amnesia about it the next day?&quot;
I’m getting cynical. I still love the crashy-bashy films but I also want something a little more thoughtful to watch when I sit in a cinema and eat overpriced stale popcorn.
I attended the premier of the film “I am me”. Written and directed by Jenni Mason and produced by the Scottish theatre group PACE, the film defines for its audience what is meant by a hate crime and goes some way to explaining why it is so rarely reported.
We are introduced to the character of Charlie. We see him interact with others and we learn a little more than perhaps we knew before about the reality of living with a disability. In the film Charlie has family, friends, support groups and assisted living. He has a job and he is able to meet new people around him with very little anxiety or stress.
Inevitably there are those around him who do not understand his learning difficulties, and are more or less introduced to the story as the ignorant mass. These boys are a spattered group of disaffected youths with very little motivation to do anything other than drink and wait for the next passer by to drop their shopping.
I didn’t have much of a problem familiarising myself with these characters. Unfortunately you don’t have to go far in Glasgow before you meet idiotic teenagers who tend to love the sound of their own voice and think every female within a five-mile radius will swoon if they throw a few sweary-words towards the odd passer-by; with extra points if they seem a bit different from the average local.
Unfortunately, however, it is not just silly teenagers who create a very difficult world for those with disabilities. The film makes it very clear that it could be almost anyone walking by or sitting on a bus that assume those who act differently do so because of drug misuse, or are simply just frightened of something unfamiliar or unexplained.
 

Before the story begins we are shown some truly shocking statistics on disability hate crime and how rarely it is reported. The film was made in connection with Police Scotland, so it is of little surprise that they wish their audience to be introduced to a reality on their own front doorstep. Still, it was truly disheartening to learn just how much we seem not to care for those living in our own community.
The cinematography was beautifully presented in this film. Using a wide spectrum of light and depth, the pictures dance around different time frames to a backdrop of trees, flowers, subtle character eccentricities and superbly chosen Mogwai tracks.
I thoroughly enjoyed the simplicity of having a very basic truth explained to me. As a society we have much to learn. We should be open to educating ourselves about mental health and accept that most of the time our own actions can have quite a deep impact on others.
If given the chance, give this film a watch. Bring a packet of tissues with you, though.
