SCOTLAND likes to think it is egalitarian and classless, unlike its English neighbour, but it is a facade.
This week, gifted teenager Joanne Martin claimed she was rejected from one of Scotland’s top medical schools because she comes from a deprived area.
Joanne, 18, left Glasgow’s Springburn Academy with the minimum required exam passes to train as a doctor.
But she was rejected by Glasgow, Edinburgh, Aberdeen and Dundee universities.
Eventually, after taking a three-month &shy;vocational trip to Ghana, she was accepted by Aberdeen.
 

Only 12 per cent of those who make it to medical or veterinary school are from deprived areas.
For Joanne, she felt the prejudice against her background kicked in when she applied for university, but for most kids from poor areas, their chances are stunted long before.
Like Joanne said, there were kids in her primary school who didn’t know what university was.
Even as they get older, too many children see reaching university from the wrong postcode as a journey akin to travelling to the moon.
In the working-class school I went to, children were polarised according to streets.
Kids from the roughest often &shy;populated the remedial classes and those who lived in bungalows were aiming high.
Poverty of aspiration is the worst of all. My parents always told me I could be anything I wanted.
It was a working-class home that had Oscar Wilde on its bookshelves and where politics was discussed in heated debates.
But despite that &shy;encouragement at home, I still had a fraction of the confidence I would have had, had I gone to a public school.
I picked up a couple of prizes for English at school, yet when I suggested to my teacher that I wanted to be a journalist, he told me to chose something less competitive.
I took it to heart and followed a variety of less satisfying but more &shy;predictable paths.
Only when I went to Surrey, when I mixed with middle-class kids who assumed they would attain their goals, did I catch that elusive self-belief.
Medicine needs working-class kids such as Joanne, who understand the ills of poverty which manifest in sickness, depression and addiction.
 Crucially, she has lived among those affected and not just read a paper on them to pass  an exam. 
Medicine, teaching, the media and every other profession are enhanced by diversity. The SNP’s Mhairi Black has been as ridiculed for her accent as she was praised for being the UK’s youngest MP since the 17th century.
We concentrate, rightly, on pushing the agendas of sexual and gender equality and race but in this drive towards meritocracy, where are the kids from the schemes?
In those pockets of poverty are pools of enormous untapped talent, lost to us.
We can see by the success of the exceptions who break through that the waste is &shy;incalculable and, for Scotland, the &shy;opportunities missed are too many.
 Try your hand at our news quiz 

