ONE of Scotland’s most famous live music venues that is on the brink of closure has launched a fight back in its battle with licensing chiefs.
Bosses at The Arches nightclub in Glasgow are taking legal advice to appeal a city council decision which would restrict opening hours.
They say earlier closing rules - at midnight - will have a “devastating” effect on the venue.
Mark Anderson, executive director at The Arches said: “We are still stunned by Friday’s decision and at a loss to understand just what more we could have done to provide a safer clubbing environment at The Arches.
“Over the period under review, we welcomed over 250,000 clubbers through our doors. Of that number, just 0.14 per cent were reported for misuse of drugs incidents.
“What is more worrying is that despite the increased safety measures we adopted on the recommendation of Police Scotland, which had already alienated many of our valued club customers, our successful operation of those policies has resulted in the statistics being used against us.”
The Arches claim that it is its own “self-reporting” of incidents that is now being used against it.
The directors are now to meet with with funding partners Creative Scotland and Glasgow Life to discuss potential ways forward.
Thousands of patrons have signed a petition calling on Glasgow Cuity Council’s Licensing Committee to rethink its decision.
Lucy Mason, Artistic Director, said: “We have been overwhelmed by the humbling and heartening support for The Arches and would like to thank everyone for being so passionate and articulate on our behalf.”
The Arches currently employs 133 people.
Bosses say this week’s scheduled events will be unaffected by the city council crackdown.
The Arches was founded in 1991 as a direct result of Glasgow being named European Capital of Culture 1990.
Councillors and police blamed a “culture of drug misuse” associated with the city centre site for the decision to cut its hours.
The club came under fire in March after 26 people were reported for drugs and alcohol offences in one night.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

