THE KING may well have ascended to the Rangers boardroom throne.
However the SFA’s decision to pass Dave King as a ‘fit and proper’ person divided opinion among supporters up and down the country.
Let the squabbling commence.
First up was John Bruce who was succinct and to to the point. 
John e-mailed and said: “Now that Dave King has finally been installed on his throne at Ibrox, there’s only one thing to be said: ‘Arise, Scottish football’.
 Gerard Kelly, e-mailed to say: “It just goes to show the SFA will let anybody in. 
“The SFA should be investigated for making bad choices time and time again especially Neil Doncaster for improper conduct of our game.”
 Jim Kerr, Renfrew, said: “It is good to see the establishment is alive and kicking with King being allowed to sweep into power at the Newco.” 
 Ian Semple, Ayr, said: “King could be the best thing that ever happened to Rangers. 
“We finally have a Rangers man in charge of our club.
 

“We can now go about rebuilding everything from the bottom up.
“Celtic better start looking over their shoulders as we are coming to get them.”
 Billy White, Clydebank, said: “Rangers supporters know what it is like to see their club fleeced. 
“So how a man like King with 41 convictions for dishonesty can be allowed to waltz in and take control of Rangers is beyond me
“Rangers might well rue the day the SFA passed King as a ‘fit and proper’ person.”
 Jim Wilson, Glasgow, said: “I don’t remember Dave King saying he would only invest if he was passed as ‘fit and proper’. 
“King seems to be contradicting himself quite a lot.
“He told the Rangers supporters he had a NOMAD - it never happened.
 
“He seems to answer questions but forgets he has given different answers to the same questions.
“Mark my words this will NOT end well for Rangers.”
Watch the Daily Record Football Show special on Dave King.. 

David Gray, London, said: “It is marvellous news that King is back in the Ibrox boardroom. 
“I look forward to a good laugh in the coming days as the Celtic supporters tell us why he shouldn’t be.”
 Andi McMahon, Clydebank said: “It beggars belief that the SFA have found Dave King a fit and proper person to take over at Ibrox. 
“What exactly does King have to be involved in not be fit and proper.
“This is history repeating itself at Rangers with a convicted tax dodger at the helm.
“The Rangers fans should be warned.”
 John McKinlay, Kilmarnock, said: “Dave King has finally been passed as a ‘fit and proper’ person by the SFA to lead Rangers forward, I bet some Celtic supporters will go ballistic and blame the SFA board for this ruling.” 
 
 
David Runham, Southampton, said: “So Mr King has finally got approval from the SFA board. 
“What a great pity the board were not as thorough with Craig Whyte’s application.
“Then maybe all the hassle and aggro of the past three years could have been avoided.”
 
 

Pat Thompson, Parkhead, surely had his tongue in cheek with this offering. 
Pat said: “Rangers now have a new chairman in situ.
“All they need is a new manager and they can build a team to march into the Scottish Premiership next season.”
Rangers are four games away from the top flight Pat, in case you hadn’t noticed.
 James Robertson, Dennistoun, said: “The timing of King being passed by the SFA as ‘fit and proper’ is incredible. 
“Rangers have just been handed a shot in the arm with this news ahead of the two legged semi-final play-offs against Hibs.
“What happened to sporting integrity and impartiality?
“The announcement could have been timed and handled better.”
 Derek Reid, Dollar, said: “King has been declared fit and proper and that is the end of the matter. 
“Everybody just has to move on.”
Move along nothing to see here.
 Here endeth the Hotline and my ears are bleeding. 
  CALL THE HOTLINE FROM 11 TILL 12 noon on TUESDAY ON: 0141 309 3306  or email us: hotline@dailyrecord.co.uk  

