A BRUTALLY honest job advert brimming with swear words and pleading for a candidate that isn’t a “total ****” has attracted more than 100 applications.
Justin Valmassoi, 35, sparked hilarity this week by posting a plain-talking chef’s vacancy at his American Diner.
The advert went viral, and was read all around the globe after he wrote: “Looking for someone fast, progressive, and not a total **** for a new restaurant in Clarkston.
“I don’t have time for any prima donna bull****”
Justin then went on to plead with prospective candidates not to inundate him with CVs they have copied and pasted from the internet.
In a rant that doesn’t mince its words, he also stressed that the 25-30hr/week contract on offer will likely mean 45/hrs a week “right off the bat”.
Justin advertised on website Gumtree this week looking for a chef to employ - but had no idea of the reaction he would cause.
The advert he posted on Tuesday pulled no punches.
It also said: “I don’t care if you’re super outgoing or actually mute.
“I don’t care if you’ve got tattoos.
“I don’t care if you only work in kitchens to get away from your horrible significant other.
“I don’t care about anything other than that you’re fast enough not to be in the weeds constantly and you want to be part of something genuine and good.”
 

Speaking exclusively to he Record, Justin said: “I feel sorry for anyone who has to read CVs all day. Most of them are templates from the internet saying they are ‘hard working and punctual’.
“I would rather people told me, ‘I find it difficult getting up in the morning’, and if that is the case, but they are a good worker, they can do the afternoon shift.
“I’d rather know what people are like straight away rather than working it out over two months.”
The entrepreneur, who moved to Scotland two years ago from Detroit, Michigan, decided to open the eatery after spotting what he believes is a gap in the market.
Justin is set to open the diner, called Something, on July 1, after moving to Scotland from his homeland to tie the knot with wife Natalie Pacini, 36.
He said: “I couldn’t find the kind of food I wanted to eat in the city, so when this opportunity arose out of nowhere we decided to take it.
“I just want to make the kind of food I want to eat including interesting breakfasts which actually wake you up, and sandwiches that have more than just meat and cheese.
“I feel like there is really good fine dining in Glasgow, although it is very expensive, then at the other end you have chain-bakeries who sell salty, hangover cure stuff, which is cheap, but isn’t very good.
“Glasgow was lacking something between &pound;6 and &pound;10 that is actually really good, which people will go talk about later instead of eating and forgetting about it.
“So all I am trying to do is make food with a lot of flavour. Anything which catches my eye will be on the menu.”
Although he is now an accomplished chef, Justin didn’t learn to cook until he was 25.
He said: “I didn’t learn to cook until I was 25 - and I ate such horrible fast food before then.
“I moved to the Italian Market area of Philadelphia, where they have such much fantastic food, that I though to myself if I didn’t learn to cook I would be wasting a huge opportunity.”
Justin has worked in a number of bars, cafes and restaurants, including the award-wining Stravagan in Glasgow’s west end.
He added: “People were asking me after the advert if I hated eggs benedict. It is a classic, and do I love it, but there are over one million other breakfasts available, its just you can’t seen to get them anywhere here - so I thought I would make them.”
Asked about the response to the advert, Justin added: “It wasn’t some kind of marketing strategy, it was just my ad for a chef.
“I really didn’t expect this to happen, but the response has been great. I have had over 100 responses on the first day I posted the ad.
“The advert has been pulled by Gumtree, but I am going to contact them to see if they will put it back up - I’ll have to star out all the profanity though.”
Try today's quick quiz:


