A MIRACLE mum gave birth to her son exactly one year after battling back from the brink of death.
Brave Jade Cameron was taken to hospital after she started suffering severe headaches on May 2 last year.
Doctors discovered she was gravely ill with a potentially deadly aneurysm and fitted a tiny coil in her brain to save her life.
But Jade has bounced back to full health and, in an amazing coincidence, gave birth to her son Leonel exactly a year later in the same hospital.
Restaurant worker Jade, 31, from the south side of Glasgow, said: “It has been a total emotional rollercoaster.
“I have gone from despair and wondering if I was going to make it, to being over the moon with a wee bundle of joy.
“When I was unwell, I came down with severe headaches and was feeling terrible.
“I went home after work and I just got worse. I thought it may have been blocked sinuses or something like that.
“Next day, I don’t remember waking up or anything much at all. I was apparently talking gibberish.
“I was taken to the Southern General hospital where they told me I had a brain aneurysm and needed an operation urgently.
“A small coil was then inserted in my brain to deal with theaneurysm.
“They insert the coil through a vein in your groin and up through to your brain.
“A year later to the day, I was in the same hospital giving birth to my wee boy. It has been amazing.”
 

An aneurysm is a bulge in a blood vessel that is caused by a weakness in the vessel wall, usually where it branches. As blood passes through the weakened blood vessel, the pressure causes a small area to bulge outwards like a balloon.
But the special coil she was fitted with contains the bulge in a bid to prevent further expansion.
Aneurysms can develop in any blood vessel anywhere in the body, but the two most common places for them to form are in the artery that transports blood away from the heart to the rest of the body and the brain.
If left untreated an aneursym can rupture, causing extensive brain damage.
Symptoms can include a sudden agonising headache, similar to a sudden hit on the head, resulting in a blinding pain.
Other symptoms include a stiff neck, vomiting, and pain on looking at light.
Jade added: “It was very serious but I think it was worse for everyone else because I was unaware of what was going on.
“It really hit home when I was pregnant, I just thought, ‘I might not have been here at all’.”
 

Jade named her baby boy Leonel as a tribute to Barcelona superstar Lionel Messi.
She added: “My husband loves Barcelona and Messi so we liked that name and decided to call him Leonel, just to make sure people don’t call him Lionel as in Lionel Blair.
“We are so happy. We have gone from despair to joy.
“Friends and family could not believe the coincidences – what are the odds of Leonel being born a year after I was so unwell?
“I feel so much better now. I still have to have six monthly check-ups as the docs need to keep any eye on me but things could have been so much worse. I feel as if I have my life back now – with a lovely wee boy too.
“I have been fortunate that I haven’t had many side effects. The doctors explained that an aneurysm can be like a volcano, it just erupts from nowhere.
“A sneeze could have burst it. I am feeling great now though.
“Leonel has been brilliant, he so very well behaved. It’s a great story to tell him when he gets older.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

