 WHEN Clare Kelso was &shy;diagnosed with epilepsy at the age of six, her mum Jane hoped it was something her daughter would grow out of. It didn’t happen. 
Now 19, Clare, who has a twin sister, Megan, is still living with the condition and its consequences.
But after a ground-breaking &shy;operation on her brain, she has high hopes of a bright future, one no longer dominated by the &shy;condition.
It’s another chapter in a difficult story that began when Clare was diagnosed in 2002.
Her mum Jane said: “I felt my world had caved in. It got worse when she was admitted to hospital a couple of months later between Christmas and New Year, &shy;hallucinating due to her reaction to her medication.”
Further issues emerged as doctors tried to find the right &shy;medication, many resulting in seizures which were traumatic for both mum and daughter.
Jane said: “I had to check she was safe when she had seizures and listen on a baby monitor when she was sleeping as the majority developed into night seizures.”
An epileptic seizure is terrifying to witness, even though they are a common occurrence at their home in Cambuslang, near Glasgow.
Jane, 47, still finds them stressful to deal with. She said: “Watching Clare have a seizure is horrific. It doesn’t get any easier.
“In the build-up, a person’s personality can change.
 “Clare can be tired, grumpy  and slur her words and lose her balance before and after a seizure. She has different types of seizures at night. 
“Sometimes she has a full ‘tonic-clonic’. Her lips can go blue, she will scream and cry and then can’t move in her bed, even though she’s awake. She needs assistance to move around afterwards.
“She also has small partial seizures where her head moves to the side and her fist pushes on to her face or into her mouth. We can’t stop any of this as she is so rigid.
“She constantly bites her cheeks and clenches her teeth so tightly that we’ve had to make emergency dentist appointments as she has almost managed to knock her front teeth out.
“Our dentist then made her a mouthguard to prevent any more damage to her teeth.”
Clare has seizures at least two nights a week but can have up to five a night.
When she was six she had an overnight EEG brain electrical activity monitor on which recorded more than 100 seizures.
Coping was difficult, particularly in the early years. Jane said: “I felt so alone as I didn’t know anything about epilepsy.
“My husband Robert worked away at sea. I have a small family, who have children of their own.
“In the end, you just get on with it and learn how to shout for things that would benefit Clare.”
Despite the worry, Jane feels it has brought the family much closer.
She said: “Every family &shy;experiencing stress through illness can become disjointed for various reasons. I was left to deal with Clare on my own but when my husband was home, he was able to give me a break but sometimes that could be seen as interfering.
“He would also call home and all I’d talk about was Clare as I had no one else who understood. In the end it was best for Robert to get a shore-based job to ease my stress.”
Jane admits that it has changed her role in the family.
She said: “I have to be there for her nearly 24/7 and can’t do full-time work. Where I go, Clare goes. When she was younger, and on lots of different tablets, she would have all sorts of reactions.
“No one understood their effect and I felt people just thought I was defending her for nothing at times.
“As Clare got older, her epilepsy has got worse and she became more aware of how it restricted her.
“Her father changed jobs to be home all the time and her sister chose a university close to home for the same reasons.
“We all thought of what Clare was doing before planning our day.”
Clare’s education has suffered. She missed a lot of school due to the seizures and in the end refused to go because she had missed so much.
She went to college for a year but found some tutors far from &shy;understanding about her &shy;condition and the absences it forced her to take from class.
Clare did get support from the student support base at college and was able to go on a placement two days a week to a nursery.
She made up for days she missed because of her seizures by going in on holidays.
Jane said: “That wasn’t a great success as people thought she was lazy and not really understanding that she was tired due to seizures and did need a little more help than some of the other students.”
Clare was so determined to fight back against epilepsy that she has just had a nine-hour operation to remove the part of her brain causing the condition.
Jane said: “Her recovery has gone very well so far but we have a long way to go.
“She will stay on her tablets for a year and if all goes well they will take her off them and if there are no seizures for another year, Clare will get her life back.
“It was a big risk having the surgery as they hadn’t done it before but Clare has wanted it since they said there was a chance at 14.”
Clare has an epilepsy alarm. Jane said: “It is a lifesaver. I can go to bed knowing that if she has a seizure it will alert me or anyone in the house.
“It is so easy to use and you can take it around house with you when Clare is asleep. We received ours free from the Muir Maxwell Trust.
“To our family it is a life-saving piece of equipment. If we didn’t have an alarm Clare would most certainly be in my room sleeping and that is not appropriate for a 19-year-old”.
Jane wants young people to learn more about the epilepsy at school.
She said: “The older generation seem to still think people who have seizures are some sort of weird person who you don’t have anything to do with.”
The Muir Maxwell Trust are raising &pound;250,000 to continue to provide practical support and free epilepsy alarms to families throughout the UK.
Each alarm costs them &pound;500 to supply free to a family in need.
You can support the Trust’s latest fundraising challenge by visiting www.charitycupcakechallenge.com
The campaign #beatepilepsy was launched in Edinburgh last month by the trust’s Ann Maxwell and star supporter Christopher Biggins.
 Try your hand at our news quiz 

