A MUM ripped off by a serial love rat she met online has been left heartbroken after discovering he was a conman on the run from police.
Laura Mitchell, 44, met David Campbell, 43, through online dating site Meet Me in March and within weeks the pair had started a relationship.
 But by April, unemployed Laura’s new boyfriend was asking to borrow money, leaving her  struggling. 
Hours after handing over &pound;50, Campbell went missing. Worried that something had happened to him Laura contacted police who revealed he was not the man she thought he was.
Now Laura, from Paisley, has been left humiliated after discovering Campbell, whose real surname is Kean, is a serial love rat wanted by police across the UK for similar cases of fraud.
Laura said: “I was on the social networking site Meet Me, when I received a message from a man named David Campbell.
“We began talking and immediately clicked and soon began having romantic feelings for each other.
“In the end I totally fell for him, I felt could trust him. My stomach would flip whenever I met him. He was everything I’d ever wanted.
“He told me he had moved in a few streets away after splitting up with his wife of 17 years.
“When I asked why there was no furniture, he explained there had been a mix up with the removal company.
“David came across totally genuine and I believed him.
“So when he asked me if he could borrow &pound;50 to buy a TV, I said I could lend him it for a few days and he promised faithfully to pay me back.
“I gave him it in the morning and we had planned to spend weekend together.
“Then he texted saying he had to work and would text me the next day but he never did.
“I called and called and finally went over to his house, but there was no answer. By the next day I was worried something had happened, so I called the police and reported him missing.”
 

Police finally broke into David’s house and found that his few belongings had been removed and it was then Laura’s world came crashing down.
Police said David Campbell was not the owner of the flat in Bank Street, Paisley, where Laura had stayed and the details she had did not match what they had on file.
Laura took to Facebook to try and trace Campbell and it was then that the full extent of his lies became apparent.
After posting pictures of him, Laura was contacted by a woman who told her Campbell’s real name was actually Kean and that he had never been married.
Laura then began to search online and was horrified to discover that Kean is wanted by police in Eastbourne, Sussex.
He is also wanted by officers in Derbyshire.
Numerous police forces knew about Kean and reported that he was known to use the names; David Donald, David Ross, David Kayne, David Marshall, David Jamieson, David Cochrane and David Cunningham to dupe woman.
Laura was left scared because she had raised the alarm about Kean and he knows where she lives so is now moving from her home of 17 years.
She added: “The police came out and took his details, then called to say that what I’d given them was not what they had.
“I was really confused, so went to Facebook to appeal to anyone who had seem him.
“I got a message from a woman who told me his real name was actually Kean – and that he had never been married.
“It was then I googled his name all these articles came up with his picture saying the police were looking for him for thefts and breaking bail. I felt sick to my stomach.
“Everything suddenly fell into place, I realised he was a wanted man and he knew it.
“I just felt totally humiliated and utterly betrayed by someone who I had trusted and let into my life.
“I was angry because I’d lent him the money, I’m on benefits and I didn’t have a penny left to be able to feed myself.
“I don’t know how someone could do this to another human, but I need to speak out to warn other women about him.
“He really is the most charming, kind and considerate person until you really know who he is.”
 

 Sussex Police confirmed they are looking for Kean in relation to offences of theft and  dishonesty against vulnerable women across the country. 
A spokeswoman said that Kean is wanted for failing to comply with the terms of a prison release licence.
He is also accused of alleged theft offences in Hamilton and police in Eastbourne want to interview him about thefts there.
Sussex PC Jonathan Boatwright, who is investigating Kean, said: “He may be in East Sussex, but also knows the Govan area of Glasgow, and Blackburn in Lancashire.
“If you know where he is, or have any other information please contact us.”
Kean is know to have targeted women across the UK.
He poses as a “genuine guy” on dating sites, gaining women’s trust, sometimes moving in with them, before stealing from them.
He met a woman in her 50s in Draycott, Derbyshire, in October 2012, but within a week of moving in, had disappeared with her cash and jewellery.
Kean left one victim devastated when he sold her car after dropping her off at her Sunderland workplace.
He had promised to pick her up after her shift but he failed to turn up or answer his phone.
She then found a receipt for the sale of her Ford Fiesta at a nearby garage, and her laptop was also gone.
Police in Derbyshire confirmed they are searching for Kean.
He was released early this year from a three-year sentence handed down in March 2013 for 11 dishonesty offences.
Police Scotland last night confirmed they had received a complaint and inquires were ongoing.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

