  Clark 44′  Miller 63′  
 Rangers earned a hard-fought victory to take a two-goal advantage into the Premiership play-off semi-final. 
 They overcame Hibernian with a display of resilience and spirited effort, built upon the wiliness of Haris Vuckic. 
 He had a hand in both goals; converted by Nicky Clark and Kenny Miller. 
 For all of their possession, Hibs could not breach the Ranges defence and they now have to try to rescue the tie at Easter Road on Saturday. 
 Hibs initially looked as though they were indifferent to the pressure of the occasion. They ought to have been fresher, having spent a week in Spain while Rangers were overcoming Queen of the South in the quarter-final. 
 There was a vibrancy to their play early on, but only two long-range Liam Craig efforts to show for it. 
 The home players were industrious, in particular the hard running of the two strikers, Miller and Clark, but also the midfield scurrying of Andy Murdoch, a teenager of growing aplomb. 
 There was a reliance on counter-attacks, but that enabled Vuckic to become a prominent influence, since he thrived in pockets of space in the same way as Hibs midfielder Scott Allan. 
 It was the former who delivered a telling intervention, though. As he dwelled on the ball at the edge of the area, he was inventive enough to scoop the ball over the head of the Hibs defence to Richard Foster. 
 The full-back volleyed a cross into the six yard box, where Clark confidently tucked the ball past Hibs goalkeeper Mark Oxley. 
 The goal roused the home support and forced anxiety into the minds of the Hibs players. The visitors certainly played more erratically after the break, as if too urgent to try to recover the scoreline. 
 Even their best opportunity ended in a moment of panic, with Dominque Malonga heading over from Allan's corner as the ball fell to him inside the six yard box. 
 Rangers were relying on their sheer bloody-mindedness. They fought for every ball and covered the ground with a relentless energy. 
 They were rewarded when Dean Shiels' shot spun off the head of a Hibs defender and the ball ran towards Vuckic inside the area. He had the presence of mind to realise that Miller was better placed, though, and left it for the striker to shoot past Oxley with the outside of his right foot. 
 The advantage was precious enough for Rangers to seek to protect it, makings a series of substitutions to stiffen up their midfield. The defence was put under pressure, but a Rangers defender invariably won every ball in the air inside their area, particularly at corner kicks - although Allan was entitled to complain about the pieces of paper thrown at him by the home fans when he lined up to take a corner at one edge of the pitch. 
 The victory is a platform for Rangers, and they would have taken heart from the disconsolate looks on the faces of the Hibs players at the end. 
    Full Time  Match ends, Rangers 2, Hibernian 0. 
    Full Time  Second Half ends, Rangers 2, Hibernian 0. 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Mark Oxley. 
 Attempt saved. Richard Foster (Rangers) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. 
  Booking  Liam Craig (Hibernian) is shown the yellow card. 
 Nicky Law (Rangers) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Fraser Fyvie (Hibernian). 
 Corner, Hibernian. Conceded by Darren McGregor. 
  Booking  Darren McGregor (Rangers) is shown the yellow card. 
 Lewis Stevenson (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Darren McGregor (Rangers). 
 Attempt missed. Liam Craig (Hibernian) left footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Corner, Hibernian. Conceded by Steven Smith. 
 Corner, Hibernian. Conceded by Steven Smith. 
 Foul by Andy Murdoch (Rangers). 
 Scott Allan (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Rangers. Kris Boyd replaces Kenny Miller. 
 Ian Black (Rangers) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Fraser Fyvie (Hibernian). 
 Foul by Haris Vuckic (Rangers). 
 David Gray (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Rangers. Ian Black replaces Dean Shiels. 
 Attempt missed. Jason Cummings (Hibernian) left footed shot from the centre of the box is just a bit too high. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Rangers. Steven Smith replaces Nicky Clark. 
 Attempt missed. Dominique Malonga (Hibernian) right footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Corner, Hibernian. Conceded by Marius Zaliukas. 
 Corner, Hibernian. Conceded by Richard Foster. 
 Foul by Nicky Clark (Rangers). 
 Liam Fontaine (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
  Booking  Dean Shiels (Rangers) is shown the yellow card. 
 Foul by Dean Shiels (Rangers). 
 Liam Craig (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Hibernian. Dylan McGeouch replaces Scott Robertson. 
  Goal!  Goal! Rangers 2, Hibernian 0. Kenny Miller (Rangers) left footed shot from a difficult angle on the left to the bottom right corner. Assisted by Haris Vuckic. 
 Attempt missed. Haris Vuckic (Rangers) header from a difficult angle on the right is close, but misses to the right. 
 Corner, Hibernian. Conceded by Haris Vuckic. 
 Foul by Lee Wallace (Rangers). 
 Fraser Fyvie (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt missed. Fraser Fyvie (Hibernian) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Attempt missed. Dominique Malonga (Hibernian) header from very close range is just a bit too high. 
 Corner, Hibernian. Conceded by Nicky Law. 
 Corner, Hibernian. Conceded by Richard Foster. 
 Attempt saved. Haris Vuckic (Rangers) right footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the top left corner. 
 Dean Shiels (Rangers) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Liam Craig (Hibernian). 
 Dominique Malonga (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Darren McGregor (Rangers). 
   Second Half begins Rangers 1, Hibernian 0. 
    Half Time  First Half ends, Rangers 1, Hibernian 0. 
 Liam Craig (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Haris Vuckic (Rangers). 
  Goal!  Goal! Rangers 1, Hibernian 0. Nicky Clark (Rangers) right footed shot from very close range to the centre of the goal. Assisted by Richard Foster. 
 Corner, Hibernian. Conceded by Marius Zaliukas. 
 Corner, Hibernian. Conceded by Marius Zaliukas. 
 Corner, Hibernian. Conceded by Richard Foster. 
 Corner, Hibernian. Conceded by Kenny Miller. 
 Foul by Lewis Stevenson (Hibernian). 
 Haris Vuckic (Rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
  Booking  Scott Robertson (Hibernian) is shown the yellow card. 
 Nicky Clark (Rangers) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Scott Robertson (Hibernian). 
 Scott Allan (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Dean Shiels (Rangers). 
 Attempt saved. Dominique Malonga (Hibernian) left footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. 
 Attempt saved. Kenny Miller (Rangers) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom right corner. 
 Corner, Hibernian. Conceded by Andy Murdoch. 
 Lee Wallace (Rangers) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by David Gray (Hibernian). 
 Jason Cummings (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Darren McGregor (Rangers). 
 Attempt missed. Liam Craig (Hibernian) left footed shot from outside the box is too high. 
 Foul by Dean Shiels (Rangers). 
 Scott Robertson (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Lee Wallace (Rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Fraser Fyvie (Hibernian). 
 Foul by Liam Fontaine (Hibernian). 
 Andy Murdoch (Rangers) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Scott Robertson (Hibernian) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Dean Shiels (Rangers). 
 Foul by Paul Hanlon (Hibernian). 
 Kenny Miller (Rangers) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Attempt missed. Liam Craig (Hibernian) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left. 
   First Half begins. 
 Lineups are announced and players are warming up. 
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
