THE Record was flooded with calls and emails from David Kean’s victims yesterday after we revealed the love rat conman’s trail of destruction.
Mum-of-three Janet Mighton, 43, from Whitburn, West Lothian, was left more than &pound;650 out of pocket after meeting Kean online in March.
He even left with a sentimental keepsake Janet’s late son left her.
Kean used the name Dan Taylor and online profile “DeeTee123” on dating site Plenty of Fish.
Romance quickly blossomed and Janet agreed to let Kean move into her home for a few weeks after he told her that his Glasgow flat had been burgled.
Janet opened up to Kean, 43, and showed him her prized possession – an Xbox that her 21-year-old son James had left to her when he passed away from cancer in 2011.
 

But less than four weeks later, Janet was left furious when she returned home from her job as a cleaner to find Kean’s bag gone – along with her digital camera and son’s Xbox missing.
Janet said: “In total he stole valuables worth about &pound;650 from me. But it isn’t about the money. James’s Xbox was of sentimental value and it can never be replaced.”
She told how Kean won her trust. She said: “I met Kean online and he was really lovely. We met up and got on really well.
“Then he called and said he had been burgled and, as he seemed a bit all over the place, I agreed to let him come through and stay for a few days.
“I’m usually a very guarded person but he made me feel like I could trust him.
“I even told him about my son James and his Xbox. He knew what it meant to me but he didn’t care.
 

“Little did I know I was dealing with a professional conman.”
Janet contacted police after Kean ran off. They told her of his past.
After reading of Laura Mitchell’s plight in the Record yesterday, Janet spoke out to warn other women of the con man.
She said: “He takes advantage of people. Don’t ever trust him.
“After reading Laura’s story, I think he probably borrowed money off her and then came to me – telling me he had been at work.
“I know we are not the only women he has done this to.
“We’re not the first and I doubt we’ll be the last.
“And once he is gone, he is gone. You will never hear from again.
“It’s then up to you to pick up the pieces.”
Kean has since updated his “DeeTee 1234” Plenty of Fish profile taunting his victims that he is, “now gone” and “bye.”
Try our quick news quiz below:

