THE battle between Glasgow and Edinburgh takes to the River Clyde this Saturday.
There will be both a male and female race – each with teams of eight from Glasgow and Edinburgh universities.
Crews will compete for the trophy on a 2.6km route which runs from Broomielaw Quay to a grandstand finish at the Riverside Museum.
Two rising stars in the sport are Emma McDonald and Maddie Arlett who teamed up to win their first caps for GB U23s last weekend, doing well at Germany’s Huegel Regatta.
But on Saturday the pair, who have their sights set on the 2020 Olympics, will be going head to head for their rival universities in the event sponsored by Watermans.
 

MADDIE Arlett took up rowing at Edinburgh University because she wanted to push herself to the limit.
Maddie, 20, is a sports science student who believes she has found her ideal sport in rowing.
She said: “I played hockey and football at school and was very into my fitness.
“I just wanted something to push me to my absolute limit and I heard rowing is one of the most demanding sports out there. I thought I will see what this will do for me. And it’s the correct sport.”
She’s found rowing has helped her studies in sports science as it’s given her an insight into an athlete’s perspective and helped her see how her degree could lead into different jobs.
“With getting higher and higher within the sport, I can see how sports science comes in,” she said.
But for now she’s gearing up for Saturday’s race.
Maddie competed in last year’s Boat Race where her Edinburgh team were beaten by Emma’s Glasgow team – so she’s looking to avenge that.
She said: “Of course on water you really do want to win and I’m in my Edinburgh crew and we’re going to do everything in our power to beat Glasgow.
 

“But when we come off the water there isn’t anything like that. I know a few girls on that boat quite well and we all get on well. There’s nothing off the water.
“It’s weird because Emma and I spent all of last week together training and sharing the same room in Germany. We’ve spent a lot of time together and now we’re going head-to-head.
“You’ve just got to ignore everything that’s just happened and focus on the goal in front of you.”
Maddie grew up in Ettrickbridge in the Borders and now lives in Edinburgh. She will often be up at 6am for weight training or to make the hour’s journey to train for rowing on water at Strathclyde Park.
“I’m still revising for an exam so I’ve got to tackle all of that. It’s about time management,” she says.
But she’s delighted at the impact rowing has had.
“I’m the fittest I’ve ever been,” she said. “It’s mentally demanding as well. You’re dealing with the pressures and training and balancing that with uni and your friends. But it’s very, very worth it.”
And as she progresses in the sport she’s looking towards the future and a potential Olympics appearance.
“If it goes well then Tokyo 2020 is something I’ll definitely be aiming for.”
 

Emma McDonald is studying at Glasgow University to be a primary teacher – but she’s also managing to fit in rowing training.
She first took up the sport at 12 when she joined Castle Semple Rowing Club in Lochwinnoch, Renfrewshire and hasn’t looked back.
Emma, 20, said of national team-mate Maddie: “We’ve got to know each other in training camps and we’re quite good friends. But on the water we both want to beat each other so badly.”
This will be the third Scottish Boat Race Emma, who took a national junior singles title at 16, has taken part in – and last year her team won.
She said: “Before then I watched it when I was a junior rower and it’s very exciting. If it’s a nice day lots of people go down to watch and support it. There’s quite a good rivalry and a good atmosphere. There seems to be a rivalry throughout all the sports. Ours is with Edinburgh.”
But she says after the race is finished there’s no ill feeling between the teams.
She said: “We will compete in the water during the day and then have dinner afterwards and a ceilidh.
 

&quot;It’s quite nice that we can compete on the water and off the water is separate. Rivalries aren’t held off the water.”
Emma is hoping she’ll be able to compete at the sport’s top level one day. “I’d like to see how good I can get and if that’s good enough to go Tokyo in 2020 I would love to go.”
She admits it’s a tough sport and her team will likely cover the 2.6km race in about nine minutes. “I’d say it’s one of the most physically draining sports – afterwards everything hurts. But I’ll be up on the dance floor that night – 100 per cent.
“It’s mentally very tiring as well and you want to get out in front early so you have the advantage.”
When Emma’s attending uni lectures, it means training at 6am before classes then heading back to the water at 5pm.
“It becomes routine and I’m in bed at 9.30pm,” she says. “My friends now are the people who also row as that’s who you see every day.”

 Try our quick sport quiz below: 

