A MUM has told how a serial love rat conman exposed by the Daily Record got her pregnant then left with all of her money.
We revealed yesterday how David Kean, who uses a string of aliases, had tricked women across the UK into falling for him before ripping them off.
Our story prompted Helen Gardner to come forward and reveal she was another of his conquests – and had ended up mother to his child.
Helen, 38, got engaged to the man she knew as David Ross. She discovered she was pregnant to him just weeks after he ran off with her bank card and cleaned her out.
Divorcee Helen thought she had been given a second chance at love when she met Ross in a Glasgow pub in December 2011.
Ross – whose real name is David Kean – wooed mum-of-seven Helen for four months before proposing to her and asking her to have his child.
But Helen, from Rutherglen, near Glasgow, was devastated when she woke one morning to find her lover gone and her bank account empty.
Three weeks later, she found out she was pregnant with Kean’s child.
The 43-year-old conman is wanted by police for similar scams across the UK.
Full-time mum Helen said: “I met David Ross on a night out and we hit it off immediately. Here I was with a failed marriage and six kids and he was so attentive and caring.
“He swept me off my feet and I fell in love, so when he said he was having problems with his room-mate and had been broken into, I said he could move in.
“He told me he was registered sick from work and his benefits had been stopped, so for the whole time he lived with me, I paid for everything.
“But he was so apologetic and promised to pay me back as soon as he could. So when he proposed, I was really happy.
“In the end I had to buy my own ring.
“We were trying for a baby and he told me he had twin teenage girls he wasn’t allowed contact with by his ex-wife, who he had just divorced.
“He would show me pictures of the twin girls and I even went with him to where he said they went to uni to put up a notice to help find them.
“In March that year, David got a job. On his first day, he left for work at 5.30am and texted me saying he couldn’t wait to see me and the kids later.
“Then I noticed my bank card was gone then found out my bank account had been emptied.
“I never heard from him again.”
More news from Glasgow
 

Helen said Ross had emptied her account of &pound;400 and calculated she spent about the same again on the rat, including the ring she’d bought.
Three weeks later, heartbroken Helen found out she was expecting Kean’s child.
She has since discovered that the teenage twin daughters he claimed to have in the happy family photographs he showed her were not his children. There was no break-in at his home and he had not recently divorced.
When their daughter was three weeks old, shaken Helen contacted police. They told her Kean was actually a serial love rat and fraudster.
Helen said: “I was shocked. I couldn’t believe he had tried for a baby with me when he had no intentions of sticking around.
“Here I was holding my little baby, my hormones everywhere, and they were telling me the man I thought loved me lied and robbed women for a living.
“I looked after him and cared for him and how he repaid me was by taking all the money I had out of my bank account.
“I literally didn’t have a single penny to buy my son a birthday present a few days later.”
After police told Helen of Kean’s fraudulent past, she began to piece things together and recalled a close call when the conman was nearly caught out.
Helen said: “I got a call from the Southern General to say my partner had been admitted and there was a problem with his heart.
“I raced down and told the receptionist I was looking for David Ross and gave them his date of birth as I knew it.
“But the receptionist kept saying they had no record of him there and just as I was beginning to get really upset, David came out of the toilet in a hospital gown.
“He took me aside and said the staff were busy and had obviously made a mistake.
“If only he had been caught out then, so many women could have been saved heartache.”
Helen came forward after reading of another of Kean’s victims in yesterday’s Record. Laura Mitchell was left heartbroken and penniless after meeting him online.
Laura, 44, from Paisley, was humiliated after discovering the man she thought was David Campbell was serial love rat Kean – wanted by police across the UK for similar cases of fraud.
After Laura spoke out to warn other women, the Record was flooded with messages and calls from women who claimed to have fallen victim to the cruel conman.
The Record revealed how police forces throughout the UK are looking for Kean in relation to offences of theft and dishonesty against vulnerable women.
He is known to use the names David Donald, David Ross, David Kayne, David Marshall, David Jamieson, David Cochrane and David Cunningham to dupe woman.
Sussex Police confirmed they are looking for Kean in relation to offences of theft and dishonesty against vulnerable women across the country.
Police Scotland confirmed inquires are ongoing. Officers in Derbyshire and Eastbourne said they are searching for Kean.
He was released early this year from a three-year sentence handed down in March 2013 for 11 dishonesty offences.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

