FROM May 17 to 23, seminars, training and other events are taking place in workplaces across Scotland for National Epilepsy Week.
The aim of these events is to raise awareness of epilepsy – a condition tens of thousands of people across Scotland are living with – and to reduce the stigma that is sometimes attached.
Last week I invited a number of people with epilepsy and representatives from affiliates of the Epilepsy Scotland Consortium to join me in my office in Glasgow, so that I could hear about their experiences and the day to day challenges they face.
During this meeting I was shocked to hear about the lack of understanding of the condition by the public and people in positions of authority. In particular several of the attendees with epilepsy told me this had led to additional stress and, occasionally, discrimination.
As with any medical condition, employers, educational institutions and other organisations must never discriminate against a person with epilepsy.
During my recent surgery one person told me how their university had made them feel that their epilepsy would be a hindrance to them pursuing their education and career. She was advised to take a year out to reconsider whether or not to return to her course.
Another person told me that her senior managers had caused her so much stress that the frequency of her seizures increased. I also had a father come to my office to tell me that the leisure facilities in the city he lived in weren’t adequate for his daughter’s condition. These are all examples of everyday life that we would take for granted.
There are steps being taken to end occurrences of discrimination and misunderstanding. This National Epilepsy Week there is training taking place in many schools and workplaces including my own – the Scottish Parliament - which are teaching people about the realities of living with epilepsy, including the various kinds of seizures.
Such training has been made available in the past but, according to those who attended the surgery at my office, there has been a significant lack of epilepsy awareness training in some local authorities. I have since written to Glasgow City Council inquiring as to how many of their staff have been trained on how to detect and care for someone who is having an epileptic seizure.
Misunderstanding of the different forms of epileptic seizures, which can include loss of consciousness, occasionally leading to unintentional actions, can have devastating effects. Unfortunately, there have been occasions when unaware police officers have mistreated or even arrested someone during a seizure. Last November the Epilepsy Consortium launched a campaign to educate Police Scotland and Crown Office staff how to detect seizure-related behaviours.
I hope that these collective measures will help to improve the everyday experiences of people with epilepsy and those who are close to them.
Epilepsy is a manageable condition and most people who live with it have successful and fulfilling lives. However, it is everyone else’s job to ensure that we can help to limit an epileptic person’s stress and anxiety in the workplace and after seizures.
 For more information on epilepsy and any training available near you visit Epilepsy Scotland . There is also an employer’s guide , which advises on good practice for employers and HR professionals as regards employees with epilepsy. 
We should embrace people for who they are, not judge them for any condition they might have and I commend Epilepsy awareness organisations across Scotland for the good work they do.
***
FINALLY can I give my warmest congratulations and thanks to every staff member and volunteer at Mary’s Meals, who announced on Wednesday that they are now feeding over 1 million children every day in schools across the world, in a project that started in Malawi in 2002.
Malawi and Scotland have a strong historical link which has been celebrated and nurtured in recent years by over 700 charitable member organisations of the Scotland Malawi Partnership. In my positions as an MSP for Glasgow and as the Minister for Europe and International Development I have always advocated that we have a duty to help those most in need, both in Scotland and across the world.
Malawi is a country which is partnered with Scotland, but it is also one which is blighted by hunger and poverty. The Mary’s Meals programme not only attempts to tackle the problem of child hunger in the country, but by serving it in schools they are creating a more productive learning environment and helping to end child labour. Keep up the good work.
