UNTIL this week, Australia’s Milperra massacre was the worst outbreak of biker violence in the world – and a Scot was at its heart.
That changed on Sunday when a battle between bike gangs in Texas left nine dead, 18 wounded and 170 arrested.
Bikers from five gangs attacked each other with guns, knives, clubs and chains at Waco’s Twin Peaks Sports Bar and Grill.
At his home Down Under, William “Jock” Ross watched coverage of the fight which turned the area into a warzone.
Thirty-one years ago, in September 1984, the Bandido gang were key players, just as they were in the US.
That day, Glaswegian Jock was the commander of the Comancheros, the enemy of the Bandidos, and when their fighting was done, seven people lay dead, including an innocent 15-year-old girl.
 

Jock has expressed “sadness” but in the eyes of many, he is responsible for the bloodshed of Milperra.
Speaking to the Record, he said the two massacres were different in character.
 
He said: “Of course I am interested because bikers are interested in bikers but I don’t think what happened in Milperra and in America are the same. We were at war.
“Some of those guys were shot by the police. By the time police turned up to Milperra, the fight had stopped itself. I am not haunted by that day. It happened, you move on.”
Now 71 and a grandfather of 15, Jock said his obsession with bikes was rooted in Glasgow’s Gorbals, where his lorry driver father took him out in his sidecar.
It was also in the city’s streets that he learned violence as a way of life.
He said: “In the old Glasgow days you never backed off, that’s how you survived. The Gorbals was tough and you had to be tough too.”
At 17, Jock joined the Army and spent seven years clearing land mines before emigrating to Australia.
 

Jock formed the &shy;Comancheros to restore the sense of belonging he missed from the services.
He ruled the gang like a private army. A swastika in the corner, there were military drills and lines of command.
Jock was manipulative, violent and domineering. Ironically, it was Jock’s most loyal follower, Anthony Spencer, who eventually shook his power base.
 
Nicknamed Snoddy, the orphaned social misfit had been like a son to Jock but in 1983, after a trip to the US, he was asked to form Australia’s first branch of the Bandidos.
They were in a different &shy;criminal class to the Comancheros. They dealt drugs and their ex-president was convicted of murder.
Snoddy’s betrayal sparked a feud which culminated in the Milperra massacre.
The battle took place at a supposedly friendly bike meet. The &shy;Comancheros were armed with pump-action shotguns, machetes and baseball bats.
 

That day, Jock organised his men in a “bullhorn” ambush and gave them walkie-talkies. The plan was to let the Bandidos see Jock alone, while his men would be hidden in strategic positions.
But the enemy arrived so late that the Comancheros thought their rivals weren’t coming and took to the bar. The Bandidos came prepared. They had armed themselves for a battle and within minutes, the gunfire began.
Women and children ran for cover as a Comanchero fired the first shot.
 
The battle was as wild as it was swift. Leanne Walters, 15, was shot and died instantly. Jock was shot in the chest and in the left side of his head.
Four Comancheros and two Bandidos died. Jock was one of 43 men charged with six counts of murder, later reduced to manslaughter. He served five years in jail.
 

Snoddy hanged himself in prison after blaming himself for the massacre.
In an interview last year with &shy;Australia’s 60 Minutes, Jock was asked what the battle had been about.
“Nothing,” he answered. “Pride?”
He left the bike gang in 2003 and has worked as a fire captain for 20 years.
Jock is still domineering and still married to Ness, who he wed in 1978.
He remains bullish about Milperra, blaming the other side for kicking off the battle. Asked if he would change anything, Jock says reluctantly that he wouldn’t have gone to Milperra.
He said: “If I hadn’t gone, I wouldn’t have been shot.”
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

