GLASGOW youth are running a 5K in Kelvingrove Park this year in aid of Yorkhill Children’s Charity.
Hundreds of children and family are expected for the Ahmadiyya Muslim Mercy 4 Mankind 5K on Sunday.
The run - or walk - is followed by a meal provided by the mosque near the park and the annual event has raised more than &pound;60,000 for the charity to date. Past money has gone towards enhancements to the play room in the observation ward of the new children’s hospital which opens within weeks.
Ahmed Owusu-Konadu, youth leader and one of the organisers who has personally raised more than &pound;5000 for the charity event in the last few years, said: &quot;Charity is part of faith in Islam and the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community who are in the forefront of Charity Challenges around the world have raised more than &pound;1.5 million for UK charities and this is only a way of expressing our love to the Almighty God by serving His creation who are in need.&quot;
The event regularly attracts the support of local MSP Sandra White, Bailie Dr Nina Baker, and MP Alison Thewliss of Glasgow, who hope to take part again this year.
Kirsten Sinclair, director of fundraising at Yorkhill Children’s Charity, said: “We are incredibly grateful to everyone in the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community (AMC) for their ongoing support.
“The 5k is always an extremely enjoyable event and attracts support from people throughout the community, and we very much appreciate the hard work that the AMC puts into organising the day.
“The money raised by this event will help us to ensure that the babies, children and young people treated at the Royal Hospital for Sick Children in Glasgow receive the best possible care and treatment.”
Yorkhill Children’s Charity has already funded more than &pound;5m in enhanced equipment and service delivery at the new Royal Hospital for Sick Children, and will be at the heart of the new children’s hospital when it opens on June 15 at the New South Glasgow University Hospital.
The 5K takes place on Sunday, May 24 with registration from 9am and the fun run from 11am. To register, call Yorkhill Children’s Charity on 0141 201 6917 or Ahmed on 07505 382115. You can also visit www.yorkhill.org or sign up on the day.
