GLASGOW School of Art has unveiled a meticulous scale model of the destroyed Mackintosh Library as its planned restoration is underway.
A year on from the blaze that seriously damaged part of the historic structure, GSA product design graduate Franki Finch created the 1:20 replica to go on display for the public to appreciate the library.
The 60cm x 60cm x 45cm model took more than three months to create, mostly by hand but also including laser cutting and acid etching.
Firefighters formed a human wall against the May 23 fire to save 90 per cent of the structure and 70 per cent of the contents as a stunned community looked on in horror at the blaze.
Since then, celebrities such as Brad Pitt and the entire architectural community have rallied to collect money and expertise to restore the Mackintosh to its former glory, particularly the famous library.
Franki said: “I was fortunate to be able to reference a very special set of drawings.
“Whilst he was at the Mackintosh School of Architecture at the GSA, Paul Clarke, who is now based at the University of Ulster, created a comprehensive set of drawings of the Mackintosh Building which include accurate measurements for every single room. I was able to use his detailed documentation of the library as a key part of my research.” 

Tiny specks of colour which decorated the balustrades of the library balcony were a lengthy part of the process. One theory is that Mackintosh chose white, red, green and blue to represent water, earth, fire and air.
Each decorative panel that hung from the balcony was reproduced for the model, each with different patterns of circles and lines, and created with thin layers of acid-etched brass, spray-painted to look like wood.
Juliet Fellows-Smith, tour interpretation and programme manager, said: “There is a huge interest in Mackintosh and his masterpiece, the Glasgow School of Art. Unfortunately it is not possible to visit the building currently, but with this beautiful model we will be able to illustrate Mackintosh’s creative genius as demonstrated in the design of the library during our daily guided tours.”
The model sits on a three-foot high plinth by the reflection pool in the Reid Building opposite the main entrance to the Mackintosh for visitors to examine during tours, which run seven days a week.
