CHARLIE Flynn reckons he is in tip-top condition as he prepares to take on unknown Yorkshireman Qasim Hussain at Glasgow’s Thistle Hotel on Friday night.
The Newarthill puncher has struggled recently with back and groin issues, but he revealed they are now behind him as he looks to turn on the style in what will be his third professional bout.
He told the Wishaw Press: “Everything is looking and feeling really good, and this is the best run of training I’ve had in a good while.
“I’ve never really been able to get into proper shape since I’ve turned professional, but this is definitely as good as I’ve felt so far.
“I’m really looking forward to it and to putting in a good performance.
“My back is sorted and while my groin is still a bit sore, it’s not holding me back from training or anything like that.”
Flynn’s last run-out came at the beginning of April at Newcastle’s Metro Radio Arena, and although he came through that fight with Andy Harris on a unanimous call, Flynn admitted to being less than satisfied with his showing.
‘The Mailman’ continued: “I wasn’t happy with my perfromance in Newcastle although I got the win. I’m just dying to get back in there as it seems like a long while since I last fought.”
This Friday’s scrap will be Flynn’s second on Scottish soil as a professional, and he spoke of his hopes of entertaining the fans after over five months away.
“It’s been a long wait although it has been harder to sell this one as I’ve been away for so long,” he added.
“I like fighting here in Scotland as I’ve been so used to travelling to international tournaments as an amateur
“And the longer my career goes, the chances are most of my fights will be down south so I might as well make the most of it.”
Also on the bill will be Allanton’s Scott Allan who will hope to make his long-awaited return to the ring for the first time since December 14 last year.
He takes on Glaswegian Scott McCormack at batamweight, and despite only being added to the card on Monday, he remains confident of victory.
He said: “I’m really looking forward to it.
“I’m in good enough shape and although it is short notice, I’m absolutely choking to fight as it has been that long since my last outing.”
   Keep up to date with the fight night @PressSport   
