Members of Gallowgate regeneration group have talked up recent improvements to the Bellgrove.They have met management and toured the complex to see facilities first hand.Joan McMahon, 61, said: &quot;If it wasn't for the Bellgrove, these men would be under a bridge. They're relying on this.&quot;I used to think it was quite a bad place but, gradually, over the years, I've seen vast improvements in it.&quot;There are doctors going in, counsellors going in. It's got a canteen and showers. People are taking care of the men. It is run well.&quot;I've spoken to the men in there and I think they'd be happier if they didn't have the lifestyle they have but if they shut the Bellgrove they'd be under bridges.&quot;It's a clean, dry, warm place where they are looked after. I don't want it to close down.&quot;Marion Copeland, who has lived in the area for 43 years, said: &quot;You used to get people standing outside with beer cans and I thought they were drunken bums, to be honest with you.&quot;I didn't have much to do with the Bellgrove until I joined the regeneration group. I thought it was a doss house but when I went I was quite surprised.&quot;Being involved in this project has opened my eyes. It's quite clean and tidy inside and we've been told we can go in anytime.&quot;There are 140-odd people in there and that's a lot of people to find houses for when there isn't enough.&quot;I'm happy for it to stay as long as it's kept clean and tidy and it doesn't become an eyesore. About 90% of people wouldn't agree with me, probably, but it's a different place to what I thought it was.&quot;Valerie McNeill, who also lives in the area, added: &quot;I've been here since 2004 and my impression of it was bad.&quot;When I went in a few weeks ago I was gobsmacked at how clean it is. It's fantastic to see improvements which will really make a difference.&quot;The people have a right to a good life and they can't help their situation. It could be you or I. Giving them somewhere decent and clean to go is better than putting them out on the streets.&quot;