A MOTHER of four who lost half her face to cancer has bravely released pictures of the reconstruction surgery in a bid to raise cash for charity.
Surgeons used Helen Butchart’s right shoulder blade to rebuild her face during a 22-hour operation.
Cancer had eaten into the 54-year-old’s cheekbone, palate and eye – all of which had to be removed.
Now Helen, of Lochgelly, Fife, is raising funds to help the medical team who saved her life.
Yesterday, she released pictures of her progress in the days and weeks since her surgery.
Her maxillary sinus cancer was only discovered after dental treatment failed to cure her swollen face.
Helen, who has run her own flower shop for 17 years, was treated with antibiotics and had three teeth taken out. Still in pain, she was diagnosed with cancer earlier this year.
She said: “The tumour had eaten into my right cheekbone, right eye and palate. I was in great pain by the beginning of February and was on morphine day and night.”
Helen had her life-changing operation at Glasgow’s Southern General Hospital on February 17.
Surgeons cut out the cancer and reconstructed her face.
Helen said: “They had to create a new cheekbone and palate – my right shoulder blade was used to do this.
“The skin on my face had stretched too much and was so thin they had to give me a flap.
“They also removed lymph nodes on the right-hand side.”
She added: “This is the second last day of radiotherapy, so I’m relieved about that. It’s difficult to speak at the moment because of ulcers in my throat.”
Incredibly, she was back home within 10 days.
The pictures were taken at 10 days, three weeks, and five weeks after the operation.
 

They show the right side of Helen’s face still swollen and covered with a thick skin graft. A jagged purple scar runs across where her right eye used to be.
Helen posted them to her Facebook and Just Giving fundraising page. Pals were quick to praise her.
Gordon Wilson wrote: “Geezus, you always had the X factor gal. You have taken things to another level this time and rose to it.
“Anyone who ain’t feeling emotion reading the above posts just ain’t human. X is for kisses a plenty but in your case it’s sheer guts.”
 Helen’s sister Janice Macrimmon wrote: “From the day you were told about the tumour you have  demonstrated strength like no other. You have faced every step with courage and humour – it wouldn’t be you if there wasn’t a smile and a joke involved. 
“I, as your big sister, feel immensely proud to call you my wee sister, keep up the good work pal.”
She also praised Helen’s husband, John, saying: “John Butchart needs a special mention here as I am so proud of you, John – you are a rock.”
 

Helen’s niece wrote: “Aunty Helen, you are the bravest woman I know and a true inspiration to everyone.”
Helen said: “I have nothing but praise and respect for the surgeons who helped me at that difficult time.”
She wants to raise money for the NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde Endowments fund. It pays for extra equipment, research, training and patient comfort.
Last night, Helen had made more than &pound;8800 for the fund. She said: “I have been overwhelmed by the generosity and support given by local communities. It’s great how everyone pulls together.”
  To donate, visit www.justgiving.com/Helen-Wilson2809  
