The Royal Bank of Scotland has announced the closure of several branches across Scotland.
They include Brae in Shetland, Edinburgh's Goldenacre and Tollcross, and West Blackhall Street in Greenock.
Branches in Invergordon, Lochinver and Lybster in the Highlands and Stromness in Orkney will also shut this year.
RBS said it had taken the &quot;difficult decision&quot; to shut the offices and would be offering its customers alternatives ways of using its services.
Highland Council and SNP MSP Rob Gibson have expressed concerns about the closures.
RBS is the last bank in Invergordon.
The bank said there were a number of reasons behind the closures, including falls in the number of transactions taking place in the branches.
In a statement, RBS said: &quot;We are writing to all of our customers who use these branches well in advance of the closure date, and will also display posters in the branch throughout this period of time. 
&quot;We will work hard to engage with all of our customers, local businesses and the wider local community between now and the closure date to ensure they are aware of the alternative ways of accessing their banking with us in the local area, and to answer any questions they might have.&quot;
It added: &quot;We are committed to following the UK government protocol on branch closures, and we have made the decision following careful consideration of a wide range of factors including branch usage and the alternative ways our customers can bank with us locally.&quot;
Highland councillors have criticised RBS over the closures, which will take place later this year.
Maxine Smith said the closure of Invergordon's last bank was &quot;very concerning&quot;.
The Cromarty Firth councillor added: &quot;Not everyone has access to online banking and in areas of social deprivation, such as Invergordon, people really need to be able to have physical access to a bank without the cost and inconvenience of travelling to another town.&quot;
Councillor David Alston said: &quot;This will be a blow to people in Invergordon and is a worrying trend if banks start to withdraw last branches from other towns in the region.&quot;
