BETTY Skelton does not look like a hoofer. She is a 62-year-old retired teacher from Saltcoats in Ayrshire whose idea of exercise is “a stroll along the promenade”.
Lycra does not feature in her wardrobe. There's no sign of ribs beneath her swirly patterned top.
Yet Betty could now, if she felt the need, put professional dancer on her CV. She has known the thrill of her name on the dressing room door at Sadler’s Wells in London, and the adrenaline of the five-star review.
The memory of those days reduces her to a giggly girl again. “Oh” she said with a &shy;face-splitting grin. “It was just &shy;brilliant.”
Her professional career started last year after a Scottish Ballet class – for over-55s – at Glasgow’s Tramway. She spotted a poster for an audition outside the changing room.
The piece was called The Show Must Go On but it was the choreographer’s name that jumped out –Jerome Bel. She had seen another show, &shy;Disabled Theatre, and loved it.
“I only intended Googling to see what he was doing next and mark it in the diary,” said Betty, who wears a hearing aid in both ears.
“Then I read about Canduco, who were holding the &shy;audition. They work with disabled and able-bodied dancers.
 
“They were looking for professionals and non-professionals, any age but particularly older. And people with hearing and sight loss. I thought, I qualify for at least two of these.”
The audition was a three-hour workshop in which she had to get in touch with her inner washing machine, and performed a solo routine with a newspaper. She got the gig, becoming the only Scot and the second oldest member of the 22-strong cast.
She headed to London in March for three weeks of rehearsals. On a day off she went to a matinee at the Sadler’s Wells dance theatre.
She said: “I went to see English Ballet on one of our free Sundays. I was sitting upstairs looking down on the stage thinking, ‘I’m going to be there.’ That was a bit odd.”
And while she loved the first and third piece, the middle one left her cold. So she tuned out of the dancing to work out where she would be standing when it was her turn.
 

Bel came to the dress rehearsal and gave them feedback on their performance, lifting a great show to another level. The 90 minutes on the first night at Sadler’s Wells whizzed by.
“For us, the show rollercoasters through,” she said. “Then it finishes. We are standing there, taking our bows. We looked out at the &shy;audience and they were standing up in pockets till the whole theatre was standing at the end.”
People love the piece, she said, because they recognise themselves on stage.
The music is familiar – 19 pop songs from the Beatles to Nick Cave – and the dancers come in every shape, size and colour. One is in a wheelchair, another has only one leg.
“We’re not doing anything you haven’t done in your own room, as a teenager,” said Betty.
“There’s a dreamlike sequence that shows every lassie’s dream. We get to be ourselves as much as be part of a huge cast. Most of the time we are doing what the music moves us to do.”
The Show Must Go On is at Glasgow’s Tramway tonight and tomorrow.
It will be her husband Stan’s first experience of seeing his wife on stage.
He is coming with their son, William, who is bemused by his mother’s late career change.
Sarah, their daughter, has booked in for both performances. Betty can’t wait. It is, she said, “the most fabulous show”.

