IT'S almost 10 years since the Darkness frontman Justin Hawkins went into rehab at the Priory clinic to kick a massive cocaine habit.
But the singer has put his party years behind him, turned vegan and is now quite happy chilling in the sunshine.
Justin, 40, is devoting his time to rebuilding The Darkness, who brought us classic rock anthems such as 2003’s I Believe In A Thing Called Love and that year’s Christmas hit, Christmas Time (Don’t Let The Bells End).
“When you are a young man doing music there are a lot of distractions like learning to pilot a helicopter and play for your local football team,” Justin said.

“There are lots of side ambitions to being in a successful band and you do stuff that you think is going to be fun.
“Then, when you get to my age you think, f*** that. That’s too much work.
“Let’s just sit in the sunshine when you get a moment and focus on being the best musician you can be and making the best albums.
“Don’t worry about learning to fly light aircraft. That’s not what is going to be on your headstone or what your children will be proud of.
 

“You have to concentrate on your legacy and when you get to the second half of your life that’s what’s important.
“I had my mid-life crisis in my 20s. All my fast cars and loose women happened in my 20s.
“Until I was 35, my life was a Club 18-30 holiday or a very long stag do without the looming spectre of marriage.
“Unfortunately, my twilight years are going to stretch a lot longer than usual. I’ll be doing a lot of sitting down and wearing tweed.”
Despite being vegan, there is one Scottish dish Justin misses – the lasagne at Glasgow’s legendary venue King Tut’s.
“We’ve done King Tut’s so many times,” he said. “I love that place and at the time I was eating meat.
“They did a lasagne which is fairly legendary and instead of bechamel, that posh sauce, they used pure cheese.
“It was really intense. I had to really work hard to shift the block of cheese and meat residing in my stomach but it gave me the power to rock.”
Justin added: “I’ve been vegan for nearly three years. I actually really enjoy vegan food. You feel different when you’ve eaten it. Plus my wife is vegan and I am basically copying her.
“It makes it slightly easier not to do more than one meal when I’m cooking – which I do because I’m a modern human.
“The animals and all that are very important to my wife and I feel that way too, but she is very hardcore and watches all those documentaries that show animals being mistreated.
“I don’t have the stomach for that.
“Being vegan is a sustainable way to live. Plants are everywhere. Vegetables have enough protein.
“There’s no need to kill things so it is quite easy really.
“I didn’t eat that much dairy before with the exception of the King Tut’s lasagne. That venue has probably sustained a small dairy farm over the years.
“Being 40 now, I feel I’m putting as much in as I used to.
“Maybe it’s practice and maybe it’s my diet but I just feel better and more inclined to rock.”
The band, who shot to fame with their debut album Permission To Land, as well as their hit singles, release their fourth album, Last Of Our Kind, on June 1.
Some of the new songs can be heard live when the band head to Scotland as part of their festive Blast Of Our Kind UK tour. It includes Glasgow’s O2 Academy on December 5 before ending at London’s Roundhouse on December 20.
The shows will also provide a chance to hear the newest member of the group – drummer Rufus Taylor.
The band had sought a replacement after Emily Dolan Davies, who features on the new album, quit six weeks ago.
And Rufus, who is following in the footsteps of famous father Roger, the drummer with Queen, fits the bill.
Edinburgh-born Darkness bassist Frankie Poullain said: “We’ve just had this slightly stressful last six weeks where Emily wasn’t able to give us the commitment as a touring drummer.
“She added something fantastic to the tracks on the album and we had a great experience making the album with her.
“Then Brian May’s guitar tech reminded us that Rufus, who was actually christened Tiger Rufus Taylor, was available.
“He flew back from Australia on the day of our launch gig in front of press and superfans.
“Rufus arrived at six that morning, went straight to rehearsal with us for three hours, learned five songs and did a bunch of interviews and photos.
“The funny thing is that day he looked as old as us because he had such bad jet leg.
“He’s only 24 but looked in his late 30s.”
Justin added: “He reinvigorated us and it feels like being in a band with young men who don’t give a f*** again.
“We’d started to worry about things. That’s not how you rock. You’re supposed to have a joyful reckless abandon and we have that abandon again thanks to him.
“Also, he comes from a very fine rock pedigree, which is sensational, but even in his own right he is a great drummer and perfect for The Darkness.
“We’ve had a long friendship and connection with Queen and Brian’s guitar tech texted us to say that he was brilliant and to try him out.
“His exact words were, ‘Wouldn’t put him forward if I didn’t think he was up for it. Give him a chance.’
“He is a brilliant person, a really great laugh and everything sounds great. He’s really loud and exciting and looks the part.
“He is handsome and has blonde hair and the rock pedigree.
“He ticks all the boxes. Oh yeah, as a lovely side bonus he is very talented as a drummer too.”
The Darkness famously opened T in the Park’s main stage in 2003 before headlining the following year after a meteoric rise to fame.
But Justin fears they may have been left off the bill at Scotland’s biggest festival this time around because the band are no longer in vogue.
“I love T in the Park, it’s one of our favourite festivals,” he said.
“Maybe the people who are responsible for the bands don’t like the band any more.
“Believe it or not, there are people out there who don’t like The Darkness and some are in quite important positions within the music trade.
“When we headlined T in the Park, we did that by accident.
“David Bowie was ill.
“We got bumped up when he cancelled. We would have preferred it if David Bowie was healthy because he is a legend but it was a brilliant moment for us.”
Frankie added: “T in the Park was very exciting but should a band with only one album headline a festival?
“In retrospect, you are setting yourself up for a backlash and that’s obviously what happened.
“In Britain, they build you up and very quickly knock you down.
“We suffered that and now that we are on the fourth album I can feel the tide turning. People are thinking, ‘They’re still around. Maybe they weren’t a joke band after all.’
“In fairness, we didn’t do ourselves any favours in all the antics we got up to with the second album, which had a massive overspend that we are still paying back … that massive black hole.
“We’ve had a 10-year backlash and I can feel that with this album we’ve worked our way through that.”
Try your hand at our showbiz quiz

