A GROUP of leading Scottish musicians, writers and artists have signed an open letter calling on the government and creative bodies to ensure The Arches remains as an arts venue.
Licensing bosses in Glasgow ruled last week that the venue will have to close at midnight every day, ending the nightclub section after a series of police complaints over drug misuse and disorder.
Club bosses said it could lead to the closure of The Arches as a whole, which also includes arts venues, theatre space, a restaurant and a cafe.
Police raised licensing issues last year after the drugs-related death of 17-year-old Regan McColl at the club and a number of other incidents.
The club agreed to implement a number of measures and it remained open, but issues were raised again recently.
 

Almost 37,000 people have signed a petition calling for the reinstatement of the popular club's licence and now 400 creative voices, including author Irvine Welsh, actress Ashley Jensen and members of Mogwai, Belle &amp; Sebastian and Franz Ferdinand, have signed a letter calling for The Arches to be protected.
Addressed to Culture Secretary Fiona Hyslop, Creative Scotland chief executive Janet Archer and Bridget McConnell, chief executive of Glasgow Life, the letter said there was &quot;shock and dismay&quot; at the licensing board's decision.
It reads: &quot;While we understand there are concerns around safety and drug use, we do not believe the proposed measures actively combat these issues in the city nor help the people affected. They also represent a needless loss of jobs.
&quot;However, our main concern is that we are not satisfied that full consideration has been given to the potentially catastrophic impact this decision will have on the cultural life of Scotland.
&quot;The Arches is a hugely important institution in Scottish culture which performs a number of key roles.
&quot;Alongside the nightclub's own role, it helps to fund the Arches theatre and arts venue. This a uniquely successful and innovative financial model which deserves to be celebrated and encouraged.
 

&quot;As a key venue at the centre of Glasgow's remarkable cultural renaissance of the past 25 years, The Arches' importance to the future of the cultural life of Scotland cannot be overstated, and yet this latest decision leaves it in an extremely compromised situation, the cultural ramifications of which are huge.&quot;
The final section reads: &quot;As people responsible for looking after culture and the arts in Scotland and in Glasgow, we ask you to consider what support you can give The Arches' board, directors and staff at this time, and to do all that you can in your power to ensure the continued existence of this vitally important venue.&quot;
Last week, police said: &quot;We strive to ensure licensed premises maintain a safe environment, free from violence, disorder, drug-taking and excessive levels of drunkenness - all of which can endanger people.

&quot;Our aim is always to work closely with licence holders to uphold the law and provide a safe environment for their patrons to enjoy alcohol responsibly.
&quot;Where breaches of licensing legislation occur we will take appropriate action and record and report this to the local licensing authority.&quot;
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

