THERE'S nothing to beat a fish supper served with salt ‘n’ vinegar but there’s a line to be drawn if it comes with Guns N’ Roses.
 We’re sitting in the mezzanine level at Old Salty’s on Byres Road and the waitress has just put  down a glass boasting more ice than an Antwerp jewellers. 
Axl Rose is blaring out Paradise City from the speakers and, with his lyrics, he’s striking a chord to match the riffs from bandmate Slash on lead guitar.
The glass on the table is followed by one of those miserly mixer bottles of coke, the contents of which would barely bubble halfway up the tumbler without the aid of those chunks of frozen water.
It’s &pound;1.80 for 200ml, prices to make the mini bar at The Ritz look like JD Wetherspoon’s, and my head is beginning to thump louder than the music.
“Oh won’t you please take me home, yeh yeh.”
Check our dedicated food and drink section here
The waitress hands over a brown paper bag on which is written the menu, a quirky touch, and it appears Old Salty’s don’t have an Appetite For Destruction on my wallet after all.
 Fish suppers at between &pound;8-&pound;10, haggis and black pudding suppers at &pound;6.80, fish finger sandwiches at &pound;6. A visit to Old Salty’s might burst your eardrums but it isn’t going to break the bank. 
 The venue opened recently, following the path set by its big sister in Finnieston. Sadly, the decor doesn’t scream fresh and modern unlike, say, Catch at Giffnock, another newcomer to the fish and chip scene – and an outstanding one at that. 
In fact, my pal Meera, on a whistlestop tour of Glasgow from London, reckoned the low lighting, dark decor and striped upholstery reminded her of 80’s chain Garfunkel’s – and, oh, what we wouldn’t give for the Sound of Silence.
 The presentation wasn’t helped by what appeared to be a large wad of loo roll propping up the base of a table across the floor, although it at least supports the claim that fish and chips can  help provide a balanced diet. 
Meera and her pal Felicity (got it in one, born and raised in Blackhill) decided to go for something even more fishy than my patter and ordered hake and haddock suppers respectively, while yours truly went for a black pudding. 
The arrival of the dishes 10 minutes later sparked a debate that made the old salt and sauce/vinegar rivalry between east coast and west seem like a lover’s tiff over whose turn it is to put out the bins.
I couldn’t help but be disappointed that my chips were thinner than normal, with plenty of scrag ends. They were home prepared and cooked for sure, but clearly too many small potatoes have been loaded into the chipping machine.
 It was like an episode of Loose Women set to soft rock as Meera and Felicity vehemently stood the corner on behalf of these stunted spuds, demanding their right to space on the plate but if  a brown crusted chip has to be pushed onto a fork with the aid of a knife, it has no place in a supper. 
The chips were otherwise OK – mine were a little dry – but Meera and Felicity reckoned their fish was excellent – meaty, pearly white chunks that fell away from fine, crispy batter.
The batter on my black pudding was top notch too, light and golden, fried to perfection, encasing and enhancing the rich, dense black pudding rather than smothering it in stodge.
 

Barely a drop of oil sat on the plate at the end, although if there was a minor quibble about the rich, smooth black pudding it could have done with a little more kick to its seasoning. The meal was well enough paced, although we were left to our own devices by staff who took a hands-off approach even if, the music apart, the restaurant was quiet that Wednesday night.
Still, we eventually caught an eye to order dessert – wild berry cheesecake and two spoons for the girls and an Eton Mess and 50 extra sit-ups the following morning for yours truly.
 The slice of cheesecake was huge but Meera and Felicity weren’t overwhelmed. A very thin biscuit base left it top heavy and they reckoned it was more whipped cream than mascarpone. Less would have been more. 
My Eton Mess could have done with a few more sizeable chunks of fresh strawberry to counter the sugar rush of the softly-whipped cream and crunchy meringue bits but  it wasn’t bad. Thankfully, the volume on the sound system dropped from 11 over coffee as we squared up a bill which, with drinks, was still short of &pound;50. 
We walked outside, just as another early summer downpour drenched Glasgow’s grey streets. November Rain in the middle of May. No escaping bloody Guns N’ Roses.
 ● Have you got a restaurant you want reviewed? Contact me at g.ralston@dailyrecord.co.uk  or via Twitter @garyshotplate 
