HEALTH nut Ray Quinn can’t wait to come to Glasgow – to scoff a deep- fried Mars Bars.
Since coming second to Leona Lewis in the 2006 series of The X Factor, the baby-faced singer has beefed out.
Now a 26-year-old dad-of-one, Ray goes to the gym five days a week and has biceps Arnie Schwarzenegger would be proud of.
But once a week he can pig out. And he is planning his special Scottish treat as he tours with Judy – The Songbook of Judy Garland, which stopped in Edinburgh at the start of the month and comes to Glasgow in less than two weeks.
He said: “I’ll be looking for a deep-fried Mars Bars on my cheat day. I have a cheat day once a week when I can eat whatever I like between 8am and 8pm. The rest of the week, I’m clean and I do my regime.”
Like dance DJ Calvin Harris, Ray’s has had a hunky transformation. He went from a fresh-faced teen on The X Factor to pumped-up adult, seemingly overnight. Actually, it took him just two months. When he got the call to do Dancing on Ice in 2009, the 5ft 9in star went from a 14st takeaway slob to a 12st lean machine after following a caveman diet, high in protein and fresh vegetables. He has kept the flab off ever since.
He’s done this in part thanks to his day off falling off the health wagon and, while it might usually be a takeaway when he’s in Scotland, he’ll be looking out for our infamous sweet treat. But he admits it gets harder now he’s on tour.
He said: “I like to work out every day and go to the gym five times a week but with two shows a day, you can only fit in what you can. I just do my best.
Ray was a child star on Brookside, runner-up on The X Factor and bounced back after being dropped following a No1 record at just 18. This year Ray was devastated in February to announce his split from wife Emma Stephens, mum of his son Harry, who’ll be three in August.
The wounds are clearly still raw and Ray isn’t ready to look for love while he’s in Scotland.
Stammering initially, he said: “Ah, no. I wouldn’t do that.”
Steel touching his soft Scouse lilt, he wants to make sure looking for a girlfriend is definitely not on his mind, adding: “Nothing like that. Not at all.”
Instead Ray will be hoping to meet up with The MacDonald Brothers, who he became friends with on The X Factor.
 He said: “Every time I’m in Glasgow I give them a buzz if they aren’t working or busy. My mum’s family are from Scotland but there’s no one living here now. We never went to Scotland when  I was young – we couldn’t afford it.” 
 

More celebrity news here
Ray, who hasn’t spoken to Leona in years, looks so different from the 18-year-old fresh-faced X Factor hopeful.
As well as having guns as big as battleships, his arms are covered in tattoos. But he’s still affable and has a great work ethic, which began way back in 2000 when he was cast as Anthony Murray in Brookside at the age of 10.
 He was back on primetime TV in 2006 when he auditioned for The X Factor and despite only being 18, showed off his love of old-style swing. He eventually came second to Leona, signing a record  deal with his mentor Simon Cowell. His debut album Doing It My Way was released  in 2007 and went straight to No1. It sold 350,000 copies, going platinum. 
But eight months later he was dropped. How does a teen pick himself up? Luckily for Ray, who began dancing lessons at age six, he knew he could cut it in musicals – a lifeline for former X Factor stars and ex-pop stars. He said: “I got a good work ethic from my days at Brookside and I’ve always had a strong family behind me supporting me. Doing different jobs has helped. I’ve sung and danced. It seemed a natural transition to go into musicals.”
His first foray was as Doody in Grease in 2008. Arlene Phillips did the choreography for the production and it was she who headhunted him for the new Judy Garland show, which stars the Wizard of Oz star’s daughter Lorna Luft and Wicked actress Louise Dearman.
As well as never-seen-before film clips and interviews from legend Judy, there are songs from her best- loved films like The Wizard of Oz, A Star is Born and Meet Me in St Louis.
Ray said: “I knew more about Judy than many 20-year-olds because I was a big fan of Gene Kelly. My nan’s wish before she left us was for me to dance to Kelly.
“So it’s a real honour to be part of this cast and to be dancing For Me and My Gal (the title song of the 1942 Judy and Gene starred in together). When I was a kid, my parents played Judy’s songs. I’ve always admired her. She was a small woman but very powerful and talented.
 “It’s been fantastic listening to her daughter Lorna’s stories. Her godfather was Frank Sinatra. I’m usually sat with my mouth open. She’s also a fantastic singer and she lights up the show and we  try to decorate it.” 
As well as singing and dancing, Ray is also tap dancing for the first time in 14 years. He’s a man of seemingly unlimited talent. Since The X Factor, he’s made a name for himself in West End musicals like Dirty Dancing, The Rise and Fall of Little Voice and Legally Blonde.
He was the winner of Dancing on Ice in 2009 and went on to show his skating skills were undiminished when he won the final All Stars series in 2014. This year he showed off his impressions like Alan Carr (no, he’s not bumped into him yet) on new series Get Your Act Together and in March released his autobiography, This Time Round. Given his run of winning reality shows, doesn’t he fancy Strictly Come Dancing?
 

He said: “I competed in ballroom and Latin for nine years when I was young so I’d leave myself very open to criticism if I did Strictly. I’d love to do it but doubt I’d be asked.”
Despite his success at skating, he doesn’t put the blades on these days.
He said: “I’d love to but I wouldn’t want to hurt myself and jeopardise the show. It’s a team effort and I’d let people down if I injured myself.”
Instead, he’s going back to music and has been back in the studio. His first album in eight years began as another covers album like debut Doing It My Way but after writing some original songs, it grew into a full album of his own tunes.
While he’s not been a chart star since 2007, he’s hoping he could be again with his new album, which he wants to release next year on his own label. He says it sounds “poppy with a twist of Motown and funk with hip hop beats”.
He said: “I’m still young so I hope I can get back in the charts again. It’s a bonus if it charts but what makes me happy is my passion for music.”
He’s had some talks with ITV about new projects he can’t talk about yet and all in all is thriving. Ray added: “I love being on stage but also when I’m working and doing well and providing for the people around me including my mum and dad – it brings me joy.”
 ● Ray stars in Judy – The Songbook of Judy Garland which is at the Theatre Royal, Glasgow, from June 2-6. For tickets call 0844 871 7647 or www.atgtickets.com/glasgow 
Try today's showbiz quiz:

