WHEN Trisha Heron woke up from life-saving brain tumour surgery, the first thing she wanted to do was apologise to all the people she loved.
Trisha, 54, says that in the two years leading up to her diagnosis with a brain tumour, her personality changed dramatically. It transformed her from a loving and caring wife, mother and friend into a woman who snapped at everyone around her.
She regularly upset both her friends and relatives and pushed her 36-year marriage to the brink of collapse.

Trisha says her radical personality change only started to make sense after being told shifts in behaviour were a little-known symptom of brain tumours.
And within minutes of opening her eyes following surgery to remove the growth, she instantly felt like her old – much kinder – self.
Trisha, of Oban, said: “I had no idea that a brain tumour could cause such a dramatic change to a person’s personality and I’m not proud of the person I became.
“At the time, I knew I was behaving differently but I didn’t realise the extent of how different my behaviour had become. I would say horrible things, I had little kindness towards my friends and family and I showed no emotion. I became a horrible person.

 “I look back now and feel really embarrassed about how I was but thankfully everyone around me  has been so understanding. 
“As soon as the tumour was removed, I became myself again – and just wanted to apologise to everyone and tell them how sorry I was. Now I just want to raise awareness of what I went through, so people can spot the signs.”
Trisha was diagnosed with a brain tumour in September 2014 after suffering a devastating seizure while shopping in Oban town centre.
She was rushed to hospital where a scan later revealed a 5cm-long, grade 2, atypical, meningioma non-cancerous tumour at the front of her brain.
Trisha said: “For eight weeks leading up to the seizure, I had suffered from a permanent headache.
“I have suffered from regular migraines for the past seven years so this headache didn’t seem too bad.
“I had lost weight too – dropping from 9.5st to just 8st – but just assumed it was down to me doing a lot of walking and fitness. Then I was out with a friend and when she said she was going into a bookshop, I told her I would wait outside.
“I remember her coming out the shop towards me but I felt like I was floating and knew something wasn’t right.
“The next thing I knew, I woke up in hospital and was being told I had suffered a bad seizure.”
When the news was broken to Trisha that the seizure had been caused by a brain tumour, she says she didn’t cry, feel scared or show any other emotion.
 It was only when her family – including her husband Gerry, 59, daughter Alisa, 33, son Gerry, 35,  and his twin sister Annabell – started researching symptoms of brain tumours that they realised showing  no emotion and changes in personality could be classic traits. 
The doting gran said: “I remember my daughter saying, ‘Mum – that’s just how you were’. In the past, I had always been a very emotional, caring person. I would cry if my friends told me about something that had upset them, I would cry at things on the television and if I thought my daughter was ever upset over anything, I would dash to Glasgow to check on her.
“But I became someone who was always arguing and who had no filter on what I was saying.
“If someone was telling me about something upsetting that had happened, I’d just say things like, ‘Well, that’s what happened – get over it’.
 “Another time, one of my friends was showing me things she had bought  and instead of telling her how nice they were, I started asking her why she was wasting her money on such rubbish. 
“I said awful things. It affected my marriage and I was upsetting my daughter all the time. It wasn’t that I was doing huge things – but it was all the little things that I kept saying.
“I had become such a different person – short-tempered and stressed all the time – and while the people around me could see I was different, they had no idea something so sinister was behind the change.”
Trisha’s daughter Alisa, who joined her mum in running the Great Women’s 10k last weekend to raise money for The Brain Tumour Charity, said: “In the two, maybe even three, years leading up to my mum being diagnosed with a brain tumour, her personality totally changed, especially just before she had her seizure.
 “I love my mum so much, so I hate saying this about her, but when she  was ill she became unbearable. 
“You couldn’t speak to her without her coming across as angry with you.
“She couldn’t say anything in a nice manner and had lost all the emotion she used to have for everybody. She wasn’t herself for a long long time.
“I really thought I had lost my mum, our relationship just wasn’t the same.
“Thankfully as soon as the tumour was removed, she became the loving person she had been before she was ill.
“The most important thing now is that I have my mum back.”
■ Trisha and her family are supporting the Bank of Scotland Great Scottish Run, which includes a 10k, half marathon and kids’ events, on October 3-4, see www.greatscottishrun.com
 Try your hand at our news quiz 

