WHEN Alexandra Ivan was diagnosed with breast cancer, it wasn’t just a team of doctors who helped to save her life – but hundreds of strangers from all over the world.
Romanian Alexandra, 34, was working in Dubai when she found a lump in her breast. When her insurance company refused to cover the cost of her cancer treatment, her Scottish partner Gordon Thomson set up a social media campaign to help pay for the surgery, chemotherapy and follow-up medicine she needed.
While family, friends and former work colleagues started fundraising, she was stunned to learn &pound;14,000 came flooding in from people she didn’t know living across the world.
Now, more than two years on from her shock diagnosis, she says she will always be deeply grateful to everyone who helped her.
Alexandra, who now lives in Glasgow, said: “I don’t know if I would be here today if it wasn’t for all the people who helped to raise money for my treatment and who supported me.
“When I was diagnosed, I was told my insurance company wasn’t going to pay for my treatment so I could either return to Romania where the standard of cancer treatment is not good or attend the government hospital in Dubai where, again, I wouldn’t get the treatment I needed.
“You still have to pay for the treatment but you would just get whatever chemotherapy they had available – not the chemotherapy that worked best for your cancer or even the right amount of treatment needed.
“I started contacting cancer clinics across Europe, asking them what treatment they offered to suit my specific cancer and how much it would cost.
“I put my small flat in Romania up for sale and my parents applied for bank loans to help me but still I knew I wouldn’t have anywhere near enough money.
“The day Gordon got a message from me saying I had been diagnosed with breast cancer, he began a fundraising campaign for me – working at it day and night, trying to make it go viral using Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn and emailing companies and anyone else he could think of.
“When he first told me about the campaign, I was annoyed. I hated the idea of asking people for money but Gordon told me that if people didn’t want to donate, they wouldn’t. But they did start to donate and they were donating from all over the world.
 “I know a lot of the people who were donating – friends, family, friends of friends and former work colleagues. But a lot of people were complete strangers from countries such as Mexico, America, Australia and India. 
“To think there are so many people out there who wanted to help me is just so humbling.
“So many people were involved in helping me throughout my treatment – from raising money and caring for me to letting me stay with them.
“I owe them all a huge debt and, while I will never be able to pay them back personally, I plan to do all I can to help other people by raising awareness of breast cancer and by raising money for Breast Cancer Care.”
 Alexandra had been living in Dubai for just three months when she discovered a lump in her left breast in January 2013. 
She said: “I had just returned from a weekend in Abu Dhabi and I was sitting chatting to my flatmate when my hand brushed my breast and I felt it. One second, I was laughing loudly, throwing my arms back, and the next I just froze.”
After tests revealed she had stage one breast cancer, Alexandra found a cancer centre in eastern France willing to offer her exactly the cancer treatment she needed at a reduced price.
For much of the next year, she spent her time staying with friends and in a budget hotel as she had breast surgery followed by gruelling chemotherapy and radiotherapy.
She also made regular trips to Glasgow to be with Gordon – a former work colleague she’d known for more than a year before falling ill.
Alexandra said: “When I was going through treatment, there was a cheap flight from Prestwick to just outside Paris that Gordon and I could use to visit each other – otherwise I couldn’t have afforded to see him.
“I would go to the hospital for my chemotherapy. Then I would have about 20 minutes to get back to my hotel room before I’d start being sick. It was very difficult being alone, often quite scary, but the following day a friend would come and get me and help me make the train journey to her house.
“I’d stay there for a few days until I started to regain my strength, then fly to Scotland to spend the next couple of weeks with Gordon, before returning to France for my next session of chemotherapy.”
 While Alexandra is in no doubt she wants to spend the rest of her life with Gordon, she admits that, amazingly, they had never physically met when she was first diagnosed with cancer. 
She said: “We had known each other for a year after working for the same company. I worked in the call centre in Romania and Gordon was part of the sales team in the UK.
“From the first time we spoke to each other, we just clicked and soon we were phoning and texting every day. We both left the company and I moved to Dubai but we kept talking every day.
“It’s hard to describe how you know you can love someone that you have never physically met but everything just felt right.
“We were planning to meet when I found the lump. To have to tell the people I loved over the phone that I had cancer was incredibly hard but I had no choice.
“Gordon was amazing and, when I knew I had two cancer clinics I wanted to look at in France, he arranged to meet me there and visit them with me.
“So the first time we met was at Charles de Gaulle airport in Paris. I just ran into his arms and we kissed.
“It was wonderful and romantic but at the same time he was there to check out cancer clinics with me.
“It was the happiest time in my life but the most painful, difficult time too.”
The social media campaign for Alexandra raised more than &pound;14,000 towards the estimated &pound;60,000 cost of her surgery and treatment.
Gordon, Alexandra and their families came up with the rest of the money through savings, loans, credit cards and even taking on extra jobs.
Gordon, 32, who took a second job as a pizza delivery driver, said: “Alex has shown such courage throughout her whole cancer journey.
“Most people who receive a cancer diagnosis don’t have to think about which country they need to go to for treatment and how they are going to pay for it but Alex did.
“She was supported by so many people she knew – everything from people sending her messages of love and encouragement to donating money.
“I love her and I’m so proud of her.”
 

Alexandra is one of 22 survivors from across Scotland who have been selected to take part in Breast Cancer Care Scotland’s Fashion Show.
She hopes her appearance on the catwalk will help to raise awareness of the condition in younger women.
Money raised from the show – which is supported by the Sunday Mail – will help the charity to provide a wide range of free information and support services for people waking up to the harsh reality of breast cancer each day.

