A hospital surgeon allegedly used a &quot;rusty hacksaw&quot; to amputate a patient's leg after attempting to get a suitable instrument from B&amp;Q.
The Ayr Hospital surgeon was cutting into the pensioner's limb when the knife struck a metal plate in his leg.
After B&amp;Q was found to be closed, the operation went ahead with the sterilised saw found in a storage area.
NHS Ayrshire and Arran said it was investigating an incident &quot;where standard procedures were not followed&quot;.
A health board source said: &quot;An elderly man who was a patient at Crosshouse Hospital needed a leg amputation and was taken to Ayr Hospital for the operation, because that's where the vascular surgeons are based.
&quot;The operating theatre was prepared, he was anaesthetised and the operation began but it was halted after the surgeon had difficulty cutting further.
&quot;That's when he discovered he'd hit a metal plate that they didn't know about. So he frantically sought advice from the consultant orthopaedic surgeon, who suggested going to B&amp;Q.&quot;
However, the store was closed because the operation was being carried out after 21:00 so the surgeon decided to use the saw which was from old hospital stock.&quot;
The source added: &quot;The saw was sterilised by soaking in some disinfectant solution and the surgeon proceeded to complete the amputation after cutting through the metal plate.
&quot;If this is a proper investigation it should be shared with all as learning. This should never have happened. I have never come across anything similar in my career.&quot;
It is understood the patient and his relatives were told about what happened some time after the incident.
Scottish Conservatives health spokesman Jackson Carlaw said: &quot;This is simply incredible - an indescribable way to treat any patient.
&quot;Despite the UK's advances in modern medicine this episode has all the finesse of improvised surgery on Nelson's flagship during the Battle of Trafalgar.
&quot;I would hope that NHS Ayrshire and Arran thoroughly investigates this as a matter of urgency.&quot;
Ann Gow, the board's interim nurse director, said in a statement: &quot;NHS Ayrshire and Arran is currently conducting a significant adverse event review (SAER) into a recent incident within University Hospital Ayr, where standard procedures were not followed.
&quot;The findings of this review and any subsequent recommendations will be shared with clinicians, as well as the family of the patient.&quot;
