  Crawford 83′  
 Ali Crawford fired home the winner for Hamilton Accies with just seven minutes remaining to defeat St Mirren. 
 He picked his spot at Marian Kello's left post with a delicious low shot which left the Buddies goalkeeper rooted. 
 It was richly deserved for the home side who were the better outfit throughout. 
 St Mirren new boss Ian Murray was in the stand, with Gary Teale in charge for the last time. 
 Murray will have quickly realised that St Mirren's relegation was no fluke, in a display short on confidence, creativity and shots on goal, evident throughout. 
 Accies were the dominant side in the first half with visiting 'keeper Kello tested regularly. 
 In the fifth minute Imrie fired a shot from inside the box which Kello saved comfortably, then the 'keeper beat away a stinging Crawford free kick from twenty five yards. 
 The visitors replied when a Stephen Mallan free kick rattled the Accies bar. 
 But the home side were soon on the offensive again and Jesus Garcia Tena's free kick thundered off Kello's near post. 
 Crawford twice in succession fired in low efforts which the St Mirren stopper saved well before thwarting Louis Longridge from netting on the stroke of half time when he sprung to his right to parry his shot. 
 The second half saw Accies continue to dominate, but goal-scoring opportunities were absent. An end of season feel prevailed, with neither side playing at any great tempo. 
 Accies were sharper and slicker, as they had been in the opening 45 minutes, but their season has been one of high achievement, while the Buddies will need to regroup and find a promotion push, in what is likely to be a highly competitive Scottish Championship next season. 
 With ten minutes to go there was warm applause for a fleeting appearance from Jason Scotland who has given Accies sterling service in his time at the club. 
 And he bows out with a win, courtesy of a fine finish from the ever impressive Crawford. 
    Full Time  Match ends, Hamilton Academical 1, St. Mirren 0. 
    Full Time  Second Half ends, Hamilton Academical 1, St. Mirren 0. 
  Booking  Louis Longridge (Hamilton Academical) is shown the yellow card. 
 Foul by Louis Longridge (Hamilton Academical). 
 James Dayton (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Attempt saved. Louis Longridge (Hamilton Academical) left footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom right corner. 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Jordan Stewart. 
  Goal!  Goal! Hamilton Academical 1, St. Mirren 0. Ali Crawford (Hamilton Academical) right footed shot from outside the box to the bottom right corner. Assisted by Dougie Imrie. 
 Attempt saved. Steven Boyd (Hamilton Academical) left footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the bottom right corner. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Hamilton Academical. Jason Scotland replaces Greg Docherty. 
 Steven Boyd (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Jack Baird (St. Mirren). 
  Substitution  Substitution, St. Mirren. Jordan Stewart replaces Jeroen Tesselaar. 
  Substitution  Substitution, St. Mirren. Gregg Wylde replaces Lewis Morgan. 
  Substitution  Substitution, St. Mirren. Barry Cuddihy replaces Kieran Sadlier. 
 Corner, St. Mirren. Conceded by Jesus Garcia Tena. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Hamilton Academical. Steven Boyd replaces Dougie Imrie. 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Jason Naismith. 
  Booking  Grant Gillespie (Hamilton Academical) is shown the yellow card. 
 Foul by Grant Gillespie (Hamilton Academical). 
 James Dayton (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Hamilton Academical. Scott McMann replaces Kieran MacDonald. 
 Attempt saved. Lucas (Hamilton Academical) header from the right side of the six yard box is saved in the bottom right corner. 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Kieran Sadlier. 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Sean Kelly. 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Jason Naismith. 
   Second Half begins Hamilton Academical 0, St. Mirren 0. 
    Half Time  First Half ends, Hamilton Academical 0, St. Mirren 0. 
 Attempt saved. Ali Crawford (Hamilton Academical) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Attempt saved. Ali Crawford (Hamilton Academical) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Jesus Garcia Tena (Hamilton Academical) hits the right post with a left footed shot from outside the box from a direct free kick. 
 Ali Crawford (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Jack Baird (St. Mirren). 
 Corner, St. Mirren. Conceded by Lucas. 
 Lewis Morgan (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Grant Gillespie (Hamilton Academical). 
  Booking  Stephen Mallan (St. Mirren) is shown the yellow card. 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Sean Kelly. 
 Stephen Mallan (St. Mirren) hits the bar with a right footed shot from outside the box from a direct free kick. 
 Foul by Jesus Garcia Tena (Hamilton Academical). 
 Sean Kelly (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Jason Naismith. 
 Corner, St. Mirren. Conceded by Jesus Garcia Tena. 
 Foul by Grant Gillespie (Hamilton Academical). 
 James Dayton (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt missed. Dougie Imrie (Hamilton Academical) header from the centre of the box is too high. 
 Attempt missed. Jack Baird (St. Mirren) header from very close range is close, but misses to the right following a corner. 
 Corner, St. Mirren. Conceded by Kieran MacDonald. 
 Foul by Lucas (Hamilton Academical). 
 Jason Naismith (St. Mirren) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Jason Naismith. 
 Attempt saved. Dougie Imrie (Hamilton Academical) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
   First Half begins. 
 Lineups are announced and players are warming up. 
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
