WHEN John Gordon Sinclair says he is looking forward to seeing Your Cheatin’ Heart, he really means it.
Despite starring in John Byrne’s country and western follow-up to Tutti Frutti, the actor has never seen it.
It was screened once in 1990 and, despite critical acclaim, never repeated. It was left gathering dust on a shelf at the BBC in a fate reminiscent of its illustrious predecessor.
But it finally gets a DVD release tomorrow, 25 years on from its first screening, and former Gregory’s Girl star Sinclair, 53, will be making sure he doesn’t miss it.
He said: “I was trying to think back to when it came first out and where I was or what I was doing because I never saw a single episode.
“I’ve always been curious to see what it was like and I wondered what had happened to it.
“I thought I’d catch it on repeat because the BBC were famous for repeating things but it never happened so I’m quite pleased that, finally, I might be able to watch it.”
When the DVDs arrive at John’s home in Surrey, where he lives with his GP wife, Shauna, and their daughters, Eva and Anna, he says he will scurry away to watch alone before deciding whether or not he can share the experience.
He is also hoping it will fill in hazy memories of making the series.
John said: “I can’t wait to see what memories it sparks.
“When you watch something it is like watching your diary unfold. You think, ‘I remember the day we did this or that’, so I am looking forward to seeing if it has that affect. It’s bizarre, a bit surreal.”
 

In Your Cheatin’ Heart, John plays Frank McClusky, a “diner ‘tec” who falls in love with waitress Cissie Crouch – played by Tilda Swinton – whose husband is serving time for a crime he didn’t commit.
As Frank’s life becomes more embroiled with Cissie’s, he tries to track down the guilty men.
John said: “It was filmed over the winter in Glasgow, mostly at night, so it was quite a tough gig, quite full on. It did feel like a big deal. Because of Tutti Frutti, expectations were quite high.
“There were meetings early on to discuss costume which John Byrne was very much a part of . He was very hands on.
“I remember being on set in some cafe and it didn’t look quite right and he was in there tearing it down and making it how he wanted to.
“The Slab Boys trilogy was very much part of my growing up so working with him was a bit of a thrill but weirdly anti-climatic because I never saw the final product.
“It’s a strange little episode in my life that I am looking forward to revisiting to see if I can assess it.”
With films such as Gregory’s Girl and Local Hero already behind him, John was a star name in the cast but it was full of new and up and coming talent which, a quarter of a century on, looks outstanding.
For Swinton, who has since won an Academy Award and is now a major Hollywood A-lister, it was one of her first TV roles.
Others in the cast included Ken Stott, Peter Mullan, Daniela Nardini, Katy Murphy, Barbara Rafferty, Jenny McCrindle, Maggie Bell and Richard Jobson.
John said: “I knew it was good cast but at that point, Ken Stott hadn’t done much TV so he was kind of new to the scene, Tilda as well. And Daniela Nardini hadn’t done This Life, so everyone was relatively fresh.
“It was all shot on film and it felt like a proper, big project. You look back at the cast now and it is quite extraordinary.”
 

Singer Eddi Reader made her acting debut in the series – and a big impression on co-star John.
While he never uncovered a love of country and western music, he has been a fan of Eddi ever since.
He said: “She sang all the time. I used to love going into make-up with her in the morning because it would take quite a long time, again because of John Byrne’s design and getting the look right was so important, and Eddi would be sitting there singing.
“It was like getting a free Eddi Reader concert every time you went to make-up.
“Her voice was amazing. You weren’t sitting there thinking, ‘She can hold a tune.’ You were thinking, ‘My god, she is out of this world.’
“I really did love sitting, getting my make-up done and that voice echoing around the room.
“I probably have all her albums and I still listen to her quite a lot.”
While John will enjoy catching up on his past, he also has much to look forward to.
His writing career has taken off in a big way and his second crime novel, Blood Whispers, has just been published in paperback.
Now he is about to start work on his next book.
Despite reports to the contrary, the former apprentice electrician is still enjoying an acting career which began when he joined Glasgow Youth Theatre in the late 1970s and met director Bill Forsyth.
Roles in hits such as That Sinking Feeling, Gregory’s Girl and Local Hero followed and he has worked steadily ever since, most recently alongside Brad Pitt in Attack Force Z and on stage in Jeeves and Wooster.
He has also just filmed a new comedy for BBC3.
Entering the world of the Scottish country and western scene was another experience altogether and not one to be taken lightly either.
John said: “I did learn very quickly that they take it seriously.
“They have gunslinger names so wee Johnny Smith from Maryhill is called Two-guns Tam, or something like that.
“I remember we got a letter from one of them saying, ‘I noticed my gunslinger name has been used and under the rules you are not allowed to do that without prior authority.’ It was an education.
“I also remember being up in Aberdeen to film a funeral procession and they had put a thing out in the papers asking bikers to come along to join it driving through the streets.
“Loads of bikers turned up and it was quite extraordinary to see them all. I remember going on to the catering bus at lunchtime and there were hundreds of them.
“There was only one space, right at the back, and I had to walk past what looked like all these hairy Hell’s Angels.
“When I got to this seat they were having a discussion about the lamb and how tender it was and how long it had been cooked for. It wasn’t the conversation I was expecting.”

