Scottish Labour MSP Ken Macintosh needs to &quot;spell out&quot; his accusations against the &quot;party machine&quot;, a former first minister has told the BBC. 
Mr Macintosh said on Saturday his supporters were being bullied to prevent a leadership contest. 
He and party deputy leader Kezia Dugdale have confirmed that they are standing for leadership of the party.
Former Labour first minister Henry McLeish said serious issues should be dealt with.
He told BBC Radio's Good Morning Scotland programme: &quot;After [the general election] we do not this type of exchange on the airwaves. 
&quot;I think people have lost trust in us and we need to work hard to fight it back. 
&quot;But I think what struck me was, and I don't know whether the allegations that Ken Macintosh is saying are true or false, when you use words like bullied and intimidated and pressurised these are serious concerns. 
&quot;We know about the political machine, we know that politics is a tough business, it's very competitive, passions are running high and there's a lot at stake.&quot;
Mr McLeish added: &quot;I think Ken has to spell out in a bit more detail.
&quot;My main concern is for the Labour Party, this is not the way we should be conducting business, but to be fair to Ken Macintosh, if there are serious issues that have to be dealt with, then clearly the party in Scotland, the party machine as he calls it, has to have a look at what's going on. 
&quot;This would be a lasting legacy the party simply doesn't need at this time.&quot;
&quot;If this a party of fraternity and fairness and and good will and transparency, let's actually practice that, get to the bottom of Ken Macintosh's comments, get Jim Murphy's report and then we can move forward.
&quot;My main plea to the party is, we need an open transparent contest where there is good will from all sides.
&quot;And what is really perplexing is that after election defeats in 2007, 2011, 2014 and 2015 we're now in a position where we look to most people like we're back to the old days where there's this kind of in-fighting.&quot;
By BBC Scotland political correspondent Glenn Campbell
When Ken Macintosh claimed the Labour &quot;party machine&quot; was &quot;bullying&quot; his supporters to prevent a leadership contest he did not name names. 
His only clarification was that members of party staff were not involved. 
So who does he mean? Elected politicians, peers of the realm, the trade unions? 
The answer is: we still don't know because he hasn't said. 
But Ken Macintosh will hope he's said enough to frighten off those he believes are working against him. If not, he may choose to be more specific. 
At this stage, he claims to have enough support to be nominated as a candidate (at least six or seven MSPs). 
The party's deputy leader, Kezia Dugdale, already has 20 MSPs behind her leadership bid - more than half Labour's Holyrood group. 
Mr Macintosh, Eastwood MSP and the party's social justice spokesman, had said his supporters were being &quot;bullied and intimidated&quot; into withdrawing their backing, but did not name those responsible.
A Scottish Labour spokesman said Mr Macintosh had since withdrawn his allegations about the party. However, Mr Macintosh insisted his comments still stood but had not been aimed at party staff.
He told Good Morning Scotland on Saturday that problems with the &quot;party machine&quot; were about &quot;people who want power and position and influence&quot;, which was an &quot;issue for all politicians&quot;. 
&quot;We have to remember our principles and if we can't do that we can't restore confidence in the Labour Party,&quot; Mr Macintosh added.
Scottish labour Party leader Jim Murphy announced last week that he would resign next month after Labour's crushing general election defeat at the hands of the SNP. 
Ms Dugdale, who is widely regarded as the &quot;obvious person&quot; to take on the job, confirmed her leadership bid on Friday.
The Lothian region MSP, said she welcomed a leadership contest. 
She has won the backing of more than half of Scottish Labour's MSPs and MP Ian Murray since announcing her intention to stand on Friday. 
&quot;I am proud to have already won the support of so many Labour colleagues in the Scottish Parliament,&quot; Ms Dugdale said.
