Police have been told to reinvestigate the unsolved murder of a woman killed in South Lanarkshire 10 years ago.
Emma Caldwell, a 27-year-old heroin addict who had been working as a prostitute, was discovered dead in woods near Biggar in May 2005.
The Lord Advocate has given the instructions to Police Scotland after the most senior officers in the Crown Office considered the case.
Ms Caldwell's family have been informed of the developments.
It follows a BBC File on Four investigation into the police inquiry, in which a local suspect was dropped in favour of prosecuting four Turkish men.
The programme revealed that officers who wanted to charge the local man, one of Emma's clients, were stopped by senior detectives investigating the Turkish suspects.
One of the Turkish men, who was charged with murdering Ms Caldwell, was awarded an out-of-court settlement after suing police for false arrest. 
Ms Caldwell was last seen alive in the Govanhill area of Glasgow in April 2005. Her family said she turned to drugs, then prostitution to feed her habit, following the death of her sister.
A Crown Office spokesperson said: &quot;The Lord Advocate has instructed Police Scotland to carry out a reinvestigation into the murder of Emma Caldwell.
&quot;The decision to reinvestigate followed careful consideration of the case by Crown Counsel - the most senior lawyers in Crown Office.
&quot;Unresolved homicides are never closed. COPFS maintains a database of all cold case homicides and cases to which the Double Jeopardy (Scotland) Act may apply.
&quot;The Cold Case Unit works closely with Police Scotland to review these cases to ascertain if there are any new evidential developments, including advances in forensic techniques, which would assist in providing a basis for criminal proceedings.&quot;
Police Scotland said they would meet with Ms Caldwell's family to explain their plans. 
Assistant Chief Constable Malcolm Graham said: &quot;Police Scotland is at an advanced stage in its preparations to undertake a reinvestigation into the murder of Emma Caldwell. 
&quot;All necessary resources with the appropriate skills and experience will be deployed to ensure a thorough reinvestigation takes place.
&quot;Senior officers from Police Scotland will be meeting with the family to outline the plans already in place and provide further information on the areas to be explored in an attempt to identify new evidential opportunities. 
&quot;Detectives will be using the most up-to-date investigative techniques, particularly those in forensics, within which there has been significant advances in recent years. It is hoped these advances will assist officers in the reinvestigation of the case.&quot;
