A CHILDREN’S heart specialist yesterday warned official scrutiny of operations is piling pressure on hard-pressed surgeons.
Andrew McLean spends his days healing the broken hearts of Scotland’s sickest children and has operated on hundreds of critically ill babies and infants.
It is a task that would weigh heavy on most people’s shoulders.
But Mr McLean, along with his colleagues, has helped halve the number of deaths in child heart surgery in the past decade, despite a rise in the most complex cases. Now the surgeon, based at The Royal Hospital for Sick Children at Glasgow’s Yorkhill wants NHS bosses to rethink the “enormous scrutiny” facing the 40 congenital heart surgeons across the UK.
Mr McLean said: “We are constantly anxious and feel the degree of scrutiny is inappropriate.”
“Nobody is complacent but we feel pressurised and beleaguered.
“We are operating on smaller and smaller and sicker and sicker babies and we are trying to fix heart problems at an earlier age.
“Surgeons are part of a team and improved survival rates are not just attributable to surgery.
“There has also been improvement in diagnosis, anaesthesia and nursing – all things which determine survival improvement.
“The idea I am doing operations better than 10 years ago is not likely. I think I am doing them well but the scrutiny is enormous.”
Children’s heart surgery in the UK has been under intense scrutiny since the 1990s after high death rates were uncovered at Bristol Royal Infirmary.
Mandatory reporting of outcomes was introduced in 1997 and all specialist centres have submitted their data to the UK Congenital Heart Audit since 2000. While Mr McLean, 48, believes all surgeons should be held to account, he also wants the progress that has been made to be acknowledged.
He said: “It is not unfair to hold us to a standard but in most other areas this degree of scrutiny doesn’t exist.
“If you have a child with cancer and he or she succumbs to that disease, people say it’s one of those things. It’s almost as if the logic is inverted.
“We are producing results that would have been seen as unbelievably good 20 years ago but there has to be a degree of tolerance that it can’t all go well.”
Around 15 years ago, a decision was made to centralise children’s congenital heart services in Glasgow.
It means that all such surgery is now done at Yorkhill, which will soon move to the new Southern General campus. Four years ago, surgeons also took on cases of hypoplastic left heart syndrome, where the left side of a baby’s heart does not form correctly.
Mr McLean said: “That’s is the most difficult condition to treat and we have taken that on.”
He, along with colleagues from University College London, recently published the results of an analysis of deaths within 30 days of children’s heart surgery.
It included a total of 36,641 operations between 2000 and 2010, 5142 of whom underwent two or more ops.
The figures showed that while the annual number of operations rose steadily from 2283 in 2000 to 3939 in 2009, the 30-day death rate fell consistently from 4.3 per cent to 2.6 per cent.
Mr McLean said: “Rather than turning away higher risk patients during an era when outcomes have been monitored more closely, a greater proportion of more complex patients were taken on in later years.”
Now, he thinks the focus should shift towards the longer term needs of patients.
He said: “Children who survive can go on to have longer term problems.
“Parents and patients have told us that’s important and we have set out to measure those things.”
 The Scottish Government said: “It is right that heart surgeons are subject to the type of rigorous scrutiny in  place, which flows from an expert review published in 2001. 
“Of course, all other areas of the NHS, including other types of surgery are also scrutinised robustly to fully ensure patient safety and Scotland has one of the foremost patient safety programmes in the world.
 “The safety and sustainability of congenital cardiac services is paramount and that is why the National Services  Division is working to develop standards of care for people living with the condition in Scotland. 
“Work to consider the co-location of congenital cardiac disease services in Glasgow is ongoing and the National Specialist Services Committee will make recommendations to ministers in due course.”
 

 'Our little Megan endured her first heart operation aged just three days but we knew doctors would save her' 
Laughing and joking with her twin sister, six-year-old Megan Fowles looks the picture of health.
But behind her bright smile is a serious heart condition that the brave schoolgirl began battling before she was even born.
Her mum Denise, of Dennistoun, Glasgow, was 21 weeks pregnant when she was given the terrifying news that one of her babies was suffering from a rare heart defect – Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome – and could die.
HLHS means the left side of the heart is underdeveloped, leaving the heart unable to pump blood around the body effectively.
Megan and Chelsea were born at 35 weeks on October 22, 2008.
Megan was whisked to the intensive care unit at the Yorkhill hospital before being transferred to Birmingham for life-saving surgery.
 She was flown down by air ambulance when she was just two days old. Denise, 38, and partner Jason Stewart, 39,  followed by road. 
 

Denise said: “We had to say goodbye to her. My heart was breaking. We swapped blankets between the girls and swapped their teddy bears.
“We were called on the way down and asked to consent to Megan’s procedure over the phone so she actually had life-saving surgery while we travelled down by car. You don’t think you can do it, but you just do.”
The medical team were pleased with her progress after surgery. But she suffered a cardiac arrest the night after her operation.
Denise said: “When we saw her after surgery, she didn’t look like our little girl. She was like a porcelain doll.
“We took Chelsea into the intensive care unit with us and they held each other’s hands. We took quite a lot of pictures because we thought Megan might not make it.
“I have met people who blame the surgeons when things go wrong but it’s not their fault.
“We are very positive in our outlook and knew Megan would be OK.”
Over the years, Megan has had a number of operations and now has regular check-ups at Yorkhill.
Denise added: “We have been told she will need a transplant when she gets older. But she has beaten the odds and we are so proud of her.”
One operation in particular that sticks in Denise’s mind was when Megan’s chest was left open for medical reasons.
She said: “It was so frightening. You just want your little girl better again.”
The Yorkhill medical team hold a special place for the family. Some of the staff there have been caring for Megan her whole life.
Denise said: “Megan is determined to be like everyone else. She plays with her sister and she is doing well in school.
“Her condition is life limiting but we can’t dwell on that. She is here and that’s the main thing.
“We have fun and we would never want to restrict Megan in what she can do.”
In September, Megan is taking part in the Yorkhill Children’s Charity sponsored walk to help other children like her. Anyone can register the event at: www.yorkhill.org/events/our-events/yorkhill-sponsored-walk-2015

