  Cummings 90′  
 Rangers set up a Premiership play-off final against Motherwell next week after losing out to a stoppage-time goal at Easter Road. 
 Jason Cummings found the top corner with a curling shot after 94 frustrating minutes for Hibernian. 
 Leading 2-0 from the first leg, the visitors survived a barrage of attacks in the opening 20 minutes. 
 Thereafter, Rangers were seldom troubled until time added on when Paul Hanlon hit a post and Cummings scored. 
 The onus was on Hibs to be the assertive, dynamic side and there was a clear indication of the visitors' intent in the way they lined up, with three centre-backs and five strung across midfield. 
 Rangers, who finished three points behind their opponents in the Championship, certainly started cautiously, but there was also an element of being forced to live on their wits. 
 Hibs, who dropped out of the top flight via the play-offs last season, were bright, adventurous, and dominated possession during the first quarter. 
 There were flurries of activity inside and around the visitors' penalty area, with defenders making vital blocks and attackers snatching at chances. 
 And there were cries for a penalty when Dean Shiels scuffed a clearance against his own hand. That would have been a harsh outcome, but a familiar frustration began to grip the home fans. 
 For all that Hibs were in control, they could not rely on a clinical edge. When Cammy Bell pushed a Liam Craig shot away, Lee McCulloch was on hand to hack the ball away from Dominique Malonga. 
 As the intensity of Hibs' play dropped, the visitors became more involved, and Kenny Miller struck their first effort on goal after 24 minutes, but the snapshot was comfortably dealt with by goalkeeper Mark Oxley. 
 The striker then sent a diving header wide from close range after Richard Foster whipped a cross into the area. 
 Mostly, though, the Rangers attackers were bystanders. As if driven by that frustration, Haris Vuckic was determined to be resourceful and, using strength and guile, fashioned a chance of his own, rifling in a shot from the corner of the area that Oxley leapt to his left to push wide. 
 The visitors were relying on self-restraint, and they were even less adventurous after the break. 
 But Hibs could not take advantage even with all four of their strikers on the pitch, after Farid El Alagui and Franck Dje Djedje joined Malonga and Cummings. 
 There were moments of opportunity, with Bell having to tip Scott Allan's cross over the bar and Malonga volleying wide from near the penalty spot. 
 The latter also drew a diving save from the Rangers goalkeeper with a well-struck effort from the edge of the area, while Marius Zaliukas needed a desperate lunge to block Allan's pass, which would have sent Cummings through on goal. 
 In a torrid passage of stoppage time, Hanlon hit the post with a close-range shot on the turn, then came Cummings' well-placed strike but many home fans had departed by then. 
 Rangers now have two games left against the club manager Stuart McCall left in November if they are to succeed in their aim to return to the top flight in three seasons. 
    Full Time  Match ends, Hibernian 1, Rangers 0. 
    Full Time  Second Half ends, Hibernian 1, Rangers 0. 
  Goal!  Goal! Hibernian 1, Rangers 0. Jason Cummings (Hibernian) left footed shot from the right side of the box to the top left corner. 
 Paul Hanlon (Hibernian) hits the left post with a left footed shot from the left side of the six yard box. 
  Booking  Fraser Fyvie (Hibernian) is shown the yellow card. 
 Foul by Fraser Fyvie (Hibernian). 
 Nicky Clark (Rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt missed. Franck Dja Djedje (Hibernian) left footed shot from outside the box is too high. 
  Booking  Ian Black (Rangers) is shown the yellow card. 
 Scott Allan (Hibernian) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Richard Foster (Rangers). 
  Substitution  Substitution, Rangers. Bilel Mohsni replaces Kenny Miller. 
 Farid El Alagui (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Darren McGregor (Rangers). 
 Foul by Fraser Fyvie (Hibernian). 
 Darren McGregor (Rangers) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Rangers. Ian Black replaces Dean Shiels. 
 Delay in match Lee McCulloch (Rangers) because of an injury. 
  Booking  Scott Allan (Hibernian) is shown the yellow card. 
 Foul by Scott Allan (Hibernian). 
 Andy Murdoch (Rangers) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by David Gray (Hibernian). 
 Kenny Miller (Rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Hand ball by Jason Cummings (Hibernian). 
 Foul by Jason Cummings (Hibernian). 
 Dean Shiels (Rangers) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
  Booking  Lee Wallace (Rangers) is shown the yellow card. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Rangers. Nicky Clark replaces Haris Vuckic. 
 Foul by Fraser Fyvie (Hibernian). 
 Lee Wallace (Rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Fraser Fyvie (Hibernian). 
 Dean Shiels (Rangers) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Hibernian. Franck Dja Djedje replaces Lewis Stevenson. 
  Booking  Haris Vuckic (Rangers) is shown the yellow card. 
 Foul by Fraser Fyvie (Hibernian). 
 Nicky Law (Rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by David Gray (Hibernian). 
 Nicky Law (Rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt saved. Farid El Alagui (Hibernian) right footed shot from a difficult angle on the right is saved in the bottom right corner. 
  Booking  Marius Zaliukas (Rangers) is shown the yellow card. 
 Jason Cummings (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Marius Zaliukas (Rangers). 
  Booking  Farid El Alagui (Hibernian) is shown the yellow card. 
 Corner, Hibernian. Conceded by Cammy Bell. 
 Attempt saved. Dominique Malonga (Hibernian) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom right corner. 
 David Gray (Hibernian) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Haris Vuckic (Rangers). 
 Paul Hanlon (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Haris Vuckic (Rangers). 
 Fraser Fyvie (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Nicky Law (Rangers). 
 (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Haris Vuckic (Rangers). 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by David Gray. 
 Foul by David Gray (Hibernian). 
 Lee Wallace (Rangers) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Liam Fontaine (Hibernian). 
 Dean Shiels (Rangers) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Hibernian. Farid El Alagui replaces Liam Craig. 
 Attempt missed. Dominique Malonga (Hibernian) right footed shot from the centre of the box misses to the left. 
 Dylan McGeouch (Hibernian) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Lee Wallace (Rangers). 
 Foul by Dominique Malonga (Hibernian). 
 Nicky Law (Rangers) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Scott Allan (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Andy Murdoch (Rangers). 
 Attempt missed. Lee Wallace (Rangers) right footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the right. 
   Second Half begins Hibernian 0, Rangers 0. 
    Half Time  First Half ends, Hibernian 0, Rangers 0. 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Mark Oxley. 
 Attempt saved. Haris Vuckic (Rangers) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Foul by Lewis Stevenson (Hibernian). 
 Nicky Law (Rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt saved. Dominique Malonga (Hibernian) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Liam Fontaine (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Haris Vuckic (Rangers). 
 Delay in match Cammy Bell (Rangers) because of an injury. 
 David Gray (Hibernian) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Lee Wallace (Rangers). 
 Paul Hanlon (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Kenny Miller (Rangers). 
 Attempt missed. Kenny Miller (Rangers) header from the right side of the six yard box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Attempt saved. Kenny Miller (Rangers) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Liam Fontaine (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Nicky Law (Rangers). 
 Hand ball by Lee Wallace (Rangers). 
 Attempt missed. Jason Cummings (Hibernian) right footed shot from the right side of the box misses to the left. 
 Attempt blocked. Jason Cummings (Hibernian) left footed shot from the right side of the box is blocked. 
 Attempt saved. Jason Cummings (Hibernian) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Attempt blocked. Fraser Fyvie (Hibernian) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. 
 Jason Cummings (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Marius Zaliukas (Rangers). 
 Fraser Fyvie (Hibernian) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Marius Zaliukas (Rangers). 
 Attempt saved. Jason Cummings (Hibernian) left footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom right corner. 
 Attempt saved. Fraser Fyvie (Hibernian) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Attempt missed. Liam Fontaine (Hibernian) header from the centre of the box is just a bit too high following a corner. 
 Corner, Hibernian. Conceded by Nicky Law. 
 Jason Cummings (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Kenny Miller (Rangers). 
 Scott Allan (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Andy Murdoch (Rangers). 
   First Half begins. 
 Lineups are announced and players are warming up. 
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
