  Kiltie 36′  
  Boyce 63′  Quinn 76′  
 Liam Boyce scored one and created another as Ross County fought back to beat Kilmarnock and pip the Ayrshire side to ninth place in the Premiership. 
 Killie took a first-half lead when Greg Kiltie pounced on Martin Woods' mistake. 
 But after the break Boyce met Marcus Fraser's cross at the near post and looped a finish into the far corner. 
 And the Northern Irishman turned provider by threading a pass for Rocco Quinn to roll past Conor Brennan. 
 It is a victory which secures County an extra &pound;45,000 of Scottish Professional Football League prize money because of the slightly higher placing. 
 That could be the difference which allows them to sign an extra player, which they will need to do a few times over the close season given they have just released 14 from their squad. 
 One of them - Richie Brittain - was in tears as he left the Rugby Park pitch after seven years with Dingwall side. 
 Wins in the penultimate week of the season allowed Kilmarnock manager Gary Locke and his Ross County counterpart Jim McIntyre to relax knowing Premiership safety was guaranteed. 
 Locke opted to start Kiltie, goalkeeper Brennan and Aaron Splaine - an 18-year-old who operated in the centre of midfield like a seasoned professional despite only making his senior debut. 
 Splaine displayed nifty touches to ghost away from markers, as well as a surging desire to push forward and test former Killie stopper Antonio Reguero with some fierce drives. 
 One of those shots almost doubled the lead soon after Kiltie's opener, but the soon to be out of contract Spaniard dived to show potential suitors he can still save the best of them. 
 Kiltie's strike made Woods pay for a sloppy pass on the edge of his own box, and the guilty County midfielder barely had time to put his hands on his head in dismay before Josh Magennis had squared the ball for Kiltie to finish. 
 A few minutes earlier Woods could have been the hero; the former Doncaster man's speculative strike from distance pushed onto the upright by Northern Irishman Brennan. 
 Ross County's Boyce was already in double figures for the campaign and the forward nearly increased his tally from a curling free-kick which Brennan had to be smart to tip wide. 
 He would not need to wait much longer for his goal, somehow looping Fraser's cross in at the far corner to take the wind out of a young Killie side's sails. 
 The hosts, with an average age of 22 in their starting line-up, conceded again when Boyce played in Quinn to finish low past Brennan for his first goal of the season. 
 And that ensured a winning end to the season for the Highlanders. 
    Full Time  Match ends, Kilmarnock 1, Ross County 2. 
    Full Time  Second Half ends, Kilmarnock 1, Ross County 2. 
 Hand ball by Michael Gardyne (Ross County). 
 Attempt saved. Lee Ashcroft (Kilmarnock) header from the centre of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. 
 Josh Magennis (Kilmarnock) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Jackson Irvine (Ross County). 
 Corner, Ross County. Conceded by Conor Brennan. 
 Attempt saved. Craig Curran (Ross County) right footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Attempt missed. Craig Curran (Ross County) left footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Foul by David Syme (Kilmarnock). 
 Marcus Fraser (Ross County) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
  Booking  Ross Barbour (Kilmarnock) is shown the yellow card. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Ross County. Richard Brittain replaces Raffaele De Vita. 
  Goal!  Goal! Kilmarnock 1, Ross County 2. Rocco Quinn (Ross County) left footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom right corner. Assisted by Liam Boyce. 
 Attempt missed. Craig Curran (Ross County) header from the centre of the box is just a bit too high. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Kilmarnock. Paul Cairney replaces Aaron Splaine. 
 Attempt missed. Raffaele De Vita (Ross County) right footed shot from the right side of the box is too high. 
 Hand ball by Rory McKenzie (Kilmarnock). 
 Foul by Greg Kiltie (Kilmarnock). 
 Michael Gardyne (Ross County) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Attempt saved. Josh Magennis (Kilmarnock) right footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. 
 Foul by Ross Barbour (Kilmarnock). 
 Michael Gardyne (Ross County) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Kilmarnock. Rory McKenzie replaces Tope Obadeyi. 
 Attempt blocked. Ross Barbour (Kilmarnock) left footed shot from the left side of the box is blocked. 
 Foul by Craig Curran (Ross County). 
 Mark O'Hara (Kilmarnock) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
  Goal!  Goal! Kilmarnock 1, Ross County 1. Liam Boyce (Ross County) right footed shot from the right side of the six yard box to the top left corner. Assisted by Marcus Fraser. 
 Corner, Ross County. Conceded by Aaron Splaine. 
 Corner, Ross County. Conceded by Lee Ashcroft. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Kilmarnock. David Syme replaces Mark Connolly. 
 Corner, Ross County. Conceded by Craig Slater. 
 Corner, Ross County. Conceded by Conor Brennan. 
 Attempt saved. Liam Boyce (Ross County) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top left corner. 
 Foul by Mark Connolly (Kilmarnock). 
 Michael Gardyne (Ross County) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Ross County. Craig Curran replaces Tony Dingwall. 
 Corner, Kilmarnock. Conceded by Rocco Quinn. 
 Josh Magennis (Kilmarnock) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Scott Boyd (Ross County). 
 Mark Connolly (Kilmarnock) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Rocco Quinn (Ross County). 
 Attempt missed. Aaron Splaine (Kilmarnock) right footed shot from the right side of the box misses to the right. 
   Second Half begins Kilmarnock 1, Ross County 0. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Ross County. Rocco Quinn replaces Martin Woods. 
    Half Time  First Half ends, Kilmarnock 1, Ross County 0. 
 Attempt saved. Michael Gardyne (Ross County) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Attempt blocked. Martin Woods (Ross County) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked. 
 Foul by Craig Slater (Kilmarnock). 
 Tony Dingwall (Ross County) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Tope Obadeyi (Kilmarnock). 
 Marcus Fraser (Ross County) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Corner, Kilmarnock. Conceded by Antonio Reguero. 
 Attempt saved. Aaron Splaine (Kilmarnock) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom right corner. 
  Goal!  Goal! Kilmarnock 1, Ross County 0. Greg Kiltie (Kilmarnock) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom left corner. Assisted by Josh Magennis. 
 Attempt saved. Martin Woods (Ross County) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. 
 Corner, Ross County. Conceded by Craig Slater. 
 Attempt missed. Tope Obadeyi (Kilmarnock) header from the right side of the six yard box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Corner, Kilmarnock. Conceded by Jamie Reckord. 
 Attempt saved. Scott Boyd (Ross County) right footed shot from very close range is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Attempt saved. Jamie Reckord (Ross County) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Attempt blocked. Josh Magennis (Kilmarnock) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. 
 Attempt blocked. Aaron Splaine (Kilmarnock) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked. 
 Attempt blocked. Liam Boyce (Ross County) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. 
 Attempt missed. Martin Woods (Ross County) left footed shot from outside the box misses to the right from a direct free kick. 
  Booking  Mark Connolly (Kilmarnock) is shown the yellow card. 
 Liam Boyce (Ross County) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Mark Connolly (Kilmarnock). 
 Josh Magennis (Kilmarnock) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Scott Boyd (Ross County). 
 Attempt saved. Michael Gardyne (Ross County) right footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Michael Gardyne (Ross County) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Tope Obadeyi (Kilmarnock). 
 Foul by Aaron Splaine (Kilmarnock). 
 Jackson Irvine (Ross County) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Attempt missed. Aaron Splaine (Kilmarnock) right footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high. 
 Corner, Kilmarnock. Conceded by Jamie Reckord. 
 Attempt missed. Jackson Irvine (Ross County) header from the centre of the box misses to the right. 
 Corner, Ross County. Conceded by Mark Connolly. 
 Foul by Josh Magennis (Kilmarnock). 
 Tony Dingwall (Ross County) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
   First Half begins. 
 Lineups are announced and players are warming up. 
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
