SCOTS councils today stand accused of ripping off hard-pressed drivers after raking in a record &pound;73.3million in parking charges and penalties in 12 months.
A shocking &pound;33.6million of that figure was profit. Motorists in Edinburgh, Glasgow and Aberdeen bore the brunt, with the three cities accounting for &pound;30.6million of the total profit made.
The figures don’t include the massive sums councils get from bus lane fines.
Motoring research charity the RAC Foundation got the parking cash figures for 2013-14 by studying the data councils send to the Scottish Government.
And director Professor Stephen Glaister said it was time for bosses to come clean with drivers about why they’re being stung and how their money is being spent.
Councils insist all the profit they make from fining drivers is spent on transport schemes, many of which benefit bus passengers and cyclists.
But some campaigners suspect hard-up councils of using charges and fines to plug holes in their budgets.
Glaister said: “These numbers tell the definitive story of who is making what from public parking in Scotland.
 “Not all authorities are generating a surplus. But overall, we are talking about big money. 
“Nobody wants a parking free-for-all.
“But when we are talking about such large sums, local authorities should be transparent with residents and drivers about what their parking policy is, why charges are set at the level they are and where the profits are going.”
 

Jonathan Isaby of pressure group the Taxpayers’ Alliance said: “Motorists will be suspicious that they are being used as cash cows in times of financial restraint.
“Councils must come clean about how these car parking fees are used.
“It’s crucial that parking fees are only used where absolutely necessary and that costs are only as high as they need to be. Motorists are already hit hard by road and fuel tax which is too high.”
Scotland’s biggest parking profits were made in Edinburgh, where it’s notoriously difficult to find a space and some cost as much as &pound;3.50 per hour. The city council raked in a &pound;15.3million surplus.
Next came Glasgow, where city centre spaces cost 60p for 12 minutes. The council made &pound;10.3million profit.
In Aberdeen, where drivers in the “inner central zones” of the city are asked to pay parking fees of &pound;3 an hour, the total profit was &pound;5million.
Edinburgh, Glasgow and Aberdeen accounted for 71 per cent of total parking income, up from 68 per cent in 2012/13).
Scotland’s three main cities have 24 per cent of the country’s population but made 91 per cent of the parking profit.
 The total profit across the country was up by &pound;200,000 on 2012.13. But 14 councils  broke even or made a loss from parking charges. Sixteen made profits and two did not have any parking accounts. 
 

Government agency Transport Scotland don’t give out figures on the total number of parking fines handed out. But Edinburgh issues about 230,000 penalty charge notices a year and Dundee 23,000, so the total in Scotland is likely to be around 700,000.
Bus lane fines are another major source of cash for councils. Drivers in Scotland were stung for a potential &pound;10million – if they all paid the full penalty – for straying into the forbidden lanes last year.
One camera in Glasgow caught more than 50,000 drivers in six months – one every five minutes. The AA called the level of fines “extraordinary and outrageous”.
Council bosses defended their parking charges.
Edinburgh transport convener Councillor Lesley Hinds, said: “Parking restrictions ensure accessibility for all road users by maintaining road safety and encouraging free flow of vehicles.
“Parking charges also help businesses, residents and their visitors by encouraging a frequent turnaround of spaces, as well as deterring all-day parking.
“Charges for permits and on-street parking are there to manage demand for limited kerbside space. Any surplus income from penalties, after the cost of enforcement, goes back into the transport infrastructure for the benefit of the city as a whole.”
 

Aberdeen Labour councillor Neil Cooney, who chairs the council’s infrastructure committee, said: “It’s a case of getting the balance right. 
“Our public transport is woefully short of the mark. Particularly in the evenings, it’s not good at all, and quite expensive.
“But on parking fees, every penny we get is recycled into transport policy. The motorist is maybe being penalised but he is getting something back in return.”
 
DRIVERS paying to park in Aberdeen’s Golden Square slammed the charges.
Mum Samantha Martin, of Lumphanan, Aberdeen-shire, said: “They’re extortionate – especially when you are only in for five or 10 minutes for an appointment.
“What can you do? You have to buy a ticket and you don’t see where the money is being spent.”
Samantha, 33, added: “I hate coming in to Aberdeen. You have to plan ahead for the parking and if you have the kids it’s a long way for them walking.
 

“Living in the country, public transport isn’t practical. It’s a nightmare.”
It costs &pound;1 to park in Golden Square for just 20 minutes and George Duncan, 73, of Tayport, Fife, was unimpressed.
He said: “I have to be honest and it is a disgrace.
“OK.. they have to make sure there are clearways and all the rest. But I’d like to know where the money goes because the charges are excessive.
“To bring people into the centres you have got to have available parking. So why punish the motorists?
“It’s profiteering, of course it is. I genuinely didn’t realise they made that kind of money.”
Samantha and George were not the only two upset by the profit figures.
 

Alasdair Aitken, 59, of Aberdeen, said: “Parking is expensive and the quality of the roads is poor. But to to be fair the quality of the roads in most Scottish cities is pretty poor.
“I’m not against parking charges but I do think a more sensible approach is required.
“In some cities they are very punitive – if your wheel is a little over the line you get a fine.”
Emma Hunter, 22, who studies in Aberdeen, said: “It’s ridiculous. They are definitely profiteering from parking – and I’ve had millions of parking tickets as well.
“I’m a student and I can’t really afford to be dishing out coins very single time I’m parking.
“I don’t think it’s right. They fine you for being slightly over the line on ther bus lane or for being 10 minutes late for getting back to your parking space.
“And the money they make is not being put back into the roads – they are terrible.
“Cars are getting damaged because of the state of the roads and the councils aren’t quick to pay out compensation.”
 Try our quick news quiz below:


