 Glasgow Warriors may struggle to retain head coach Gregor Townsend should they land the Pro12 title, according to former Scotland prop Peter Wright. 
 Townsend, 42, has been in the role since 2012, leading Warriors to their second consecutive Pro12 final. 
 &quot;I'm pretty sure there are clubs around Europe and around the world looking at Townsend,&quot; said Wright. 
 &quot;I think if Gregor wins he'll maybe stay another year and then they'll probably lose him, unfortunately.&quot; 
 Townsend, capped 82 times for Scotland, played club rugby in Scotland, England, France, South Africa and Australia. 
 DTH van der Merwe's 76th-minute try and Finn Russell's subsequent conversion helped Glasgow beat Ulster 16-14 in Friday's semi-final. 
 The Canadian's try came on his last Scotstoun appearance before a summer move to Scarlets, while fans' favourite Niko Matawalu is heading for Bath and injured full-back Sean Maitland is on his way to London Irish. 
 Captain Al Kellock is another player Warriors will have to do without next season, as the ex-Scotland lock is retiring after a decade at the club. 
 &quot;They've got better each year under Gregor Townsend,&quot; Wright told BBC Scotland. 
 &quot;This is the last time that squad will be together as a group, so they'll want to finish on a high - particularly Al Kellock, who's been an outstanding captain, a great stalwart to Glasgow and Scottish rugby. 
 &quot;They can keep themselves in the game even though they're not playing that well, and take an opportunity to win the game. It shows you the experience the young players have got.&quot; 
 Glasgow will play the winners of Munster v Ospreys in the final in Belfast next Saturday. 
 &quot;Ospreys are very similar to Ulster, they'll try and play a lot of rugby,&quot; Wright added. 
 &quot;Munster are maybe a little bit more direct and physical. Whichever team they play will be a tough game but they deserve to be in the final. 
 &quot;The record book say that they're in the final and hopefully the record books will say that they win it.&quot; 
