 Motherwell prepared for the Premiership play-off final against Rangers with a goalless draw against Partick Thistle. 
 Gary Fraser's shot saved by Well goalkeeper Dan Twardzik was the best effort of the first half. 
 Kallum Higginbotham and Calum Booth threatened for the Jags after the break. 
 John Sutton had two chances for the hosts in the second half, having a free-kick saved then firing wide from a promising position. 
 Second-bottom Motherwell's place in the final had been confirmed last weekend but it was only shortly before kick-off in Lanarkshire that Rangers secured their place by beating Hibernian 2-1 on aggregate. 
 Steelmen boss Ian Baraclough made nine changes to his starting line-up ahead of Thursday's first leg, Simon Ramsden and Conor Grant the only two players to keep their place. 
 Thistle boss Alan Archibald also took the opportunity to rest players and gave 20-year-old Jack Hendry his debut with former Tamworth defender Ben Richards-Everton also making his first start for the club. 
 The home side started the match on the front foot with a number of crosses into the box but failing to cause the Thistle defence too many problems. 
 The Jags' best effort in the first half came from Fraser who warmed the palms of Twardzik from 25 yards. 
 The match had a typical end-of-season feel with lots of endeavour but few clear cut opportunities. 
 Motherwell captain for the day Sutton was denied by Fox from 22 yards with the goalkeeper diving low to his left to block the set-piece effort. 
 And with the clock ticking towards full-time the home side passed up what proved to be the best chance of the game. 
 Craig Moore evaded the attention of the Jags defence and cut the ball back towards Sutton. The striker looked destined to score but was leaning back and fired his shot wide. 
 Baraclough's men will hope for better in their double-header against Rangers, as the Fir Park side seek to avoid relegation and extend their 28-year stay in Scotland's top flight. 
    Full Time  Match ends, Motherwell 0, Partick Thistle 0. 
    Full Time  Second Half ends, Motherwell 0, Partick Thistle 0. 
 Attempt saved. John Sutton (Motherwell) header from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Attempt missed. Jack Hendry (Partick Thistle) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Corner, Partick Thistle. Conceded by Luke Watt. 
 Attempt blocked. Callum Booth (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from the left side of the box is blocked. 
 Attempt missed. Lyle Taylor (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from the right side of the box misses to the left. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Partick Thistle. Neil McLaughlin replaces Kallum Higginbotham. 
 Attempt missed. John Sutton (Motherwell) right footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Attempt saved. Gary Fraser (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Partick Thistle. James Craigen replaces David Wilson. 
 Attempt missed. Craig Moore (Motherwell) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Attempt missed. Ben Richards-Everton (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from long range on the left is high and wide to the left. 
 Foul by Mark O'Brien (Motherwell). 
 Kallum Higginbotham (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Attempt missed. Gary Fraser (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from outside the box misses to the right following a corner. 
 Corner, Partick Thistle. Conceded by Mark O'Brien. 
 Foul by Dom Thomas (Motherwell). 
 Stuart Bannigan (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt blocked. Kallum Higginbotham (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. 
 Corner, Partick Thistle. Conceded by Jack Leitch. 
 Corner, Motherwell. Conceded by Ben Richards-Everton. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Partick Thistle. Lyle Taylor replaces Kris Doolan. 
 Attempt missed. Gary Fraser (Partick Thistle) left footed shot from outside the box misses to the left. 
 Attempt saved. John Sutton (Motherwell) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom right corner. 
 Craig Moore (Motherwell) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Ben Richards-Everton (Partick Thistle). 
 Attempt saved. Jack Leitch (Motherwell) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. 
 Corner, Motherwell. Conceded by Ben Richards-Everton. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Motherwell. Josh Law replaces Louis Laing. 
 Corner, Partick Thistle. Conceded by Dan Twardzik. 
 Attempt saved. Gary Fraser (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top right corner. 
 Attempt blocked. Gary Fraser (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. 
 Foul by Stuart Carswell (Motherwell). 
 Christie Elliott (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Motherwell. Mark O'Brien replaces Simon Ramsden. 
 Attempt missed. Callum Booth (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 Corner, Partick Thistle. Conceded by Luke Watt. 
 Attempt saved. Christie Elliott (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. 
 Attempt missed. Gary Fraser (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left. 
 John Sutton (Motherwell) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Stephen O'Donnell (Partick Thistle). 
   Second Half begins Motherwell 0, Partick Thistle 0. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Motherwell. Jack Leitch replaces Lionel Ainsworth. 
    Half Time  First Half ends, Motherwell 0, Partick Thistle 0. 
 Attempt missed. Craig Moore (Motherwell) left footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high from a direct free kick. 
 Craig Moore (Motherwell) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Jack Hendry (Partick Thistle). 
 Attempt missed. Kallum Higginbotham (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from the right side of the six yard box is just a bit too high from a direct free kick. 
 Kris Doolan (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Anthony Straker (Motherwell). 
 Lionel Ainsworth (Motherwell) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Gary Fraser (Partick Thistle). 
 Foul by Craig Moore (Motherwell). 
 Stephen O'Donnell (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Anthony Straker (Motherwell) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Jack Hendry (Partick Thistle). 
 Foul by John Sutton (Motherwell). 
 Stephen O'Donnell (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Attempt missed. David Wilson (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from the right side of the box misses to the left. 
 Simon Ramsden (Motherwell) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Gary Fraser (Partick Thistle). 
 Foul by Anthony Straker (Motherwell). 
 Christie Elliott (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Attempt blocked. Stuart Bannigan (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from more than 40 yards on the left wing is blocked. 
 Foul by Conor Grant (Motherwell). 
 Gary Fraser (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Craig Moore (Motherwell). 
 Kallum Higginbotham (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Attempt saved. Dom Thomas (Motherwell) right footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. 
 Simon Ramsden (Motherwell) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Kris Doolan (Partick Thistle). 
 Attempt saved. Gary Fraser (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top right corner. 
 Corner, Partick Thistle. Conceded by Dan Twardzik. 
 Attempt saved. Stephen O'Donnell (Partick Thistle) right footed shot from more than 35 yards is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Corner, Motherwell. Conceded by Stephen O'Donnell. 
 Attempt blocked. John Sutton (Motherwell) header from the centre of the box is blocked. 
 Corner, Motherwell. Conceded by Callum Booth. 
   First Half begins. 
 Lineups are announced and players are warming up. 
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
