Sorry, we're having problems with our video player at the moment, but are working to fix it as soon as we can
Waiting for Video...
A CLEVER dog surprised its owner on a train after making a spectacular escape from a kennel - by using a trampoline to bounce over a 6ft fence.
Handy man Thomas McCormack, 34, was left puzzled when his pooch Paddy unexpectedly followed him on his morning commute to work.
The male labrador collie cross had traced him to a train station before boarding the same carriage and jumping in a seat beside him.
Thomas couldn’t make sense of how his canine friend had escaped its fenced garden kennel or how it managed track him down on Friday morning.
But neighbours revealed they had seen Paddy bouncing on the trampoline and jumping across the 6ft fence after Thomas left the house. 
Thomas, a dad-of-one, from Croy, North Lanarkshire, said he was left with no choice but to take the dog into work for the day.
He said: “I was just on my way to work and went to the train station. I jumped on the train and the next thing I know Paddy comes in and sits on the seat next to me.
“I was shocked. He just looked at me as if he was saying ‘Where are you going?’
“I was confused, but laughing. The neighbour told me he was bouncing on the trampoline and came flying over the fence. That’s how he got out.
“He is some dog. He obviously followed my scent all the way to the station and jumped in the seat next to me.
“It’s the only explanation I have.”
Paddy is usually kept in the house and stays in the back garden when his owner leaves for work around 8am.
But Thomas was baffled when his dog began waiting outside the family’s front door on his return from work in recent days.
The mystery was only solved when neighbours revealed they had seen Paddy jumping on the trampoline -- and eventually bouncing over the fence.
Thomas said: “I’ve been coming home from work and he was sitting outside the front door.
“He’s sitting there and I was thinking ‘How did he get over there?’ He was in a kennel in my back garden and the fence is six feet, so he can’t jump it. 
“But he’s bouncing on the trampoline with the kids all the time -- that’s where he must have learnt it. He’s a clever dog. 
“I think he’s been following me to work. My guess is that he’s made the journey a few times, but never managed to find me until the other day.
“That morning he obviously caught me. I had to take him to work. Obviously he’s a new start.”
