POLICE have revealed they are hunting more than 4000 criminal gang members across Scotland.
Detectives have tracked more than 230 crime gangs who employ more than 4000 villains - nearly 10 percent more crooks than three years ago.
The Mafia-style network deal in everything from drugs and human trafficking to tanning parlours with more than a &pound;1billion-a-year turnover.
These vile gangs touch every city, town and village in Scotland.
Detective Chief Superintendent John Cuddihy, head of organised crime and counter terrorism at Police Scotland said: “Recent figures suggest more than 230 organised crime gangs are currently in operation in Scotland, with somewhere in the region of more than 4,000 people involved with these groups.
“Addressing serious and organised crime is on of Police Scotland’s highest priorities in order to keep people safe, with a cohort of dedicated officers committed to investigating these groups.
“This figure is a snapshot figure from a point in time; the number of gangs and individuals involved in serious and organised criminal activities fluctuates due to arrests and ongoing police work.”
In 2012, police analysts have tracked 274 gangs who “employ” 3663 people. Figures for this year show that police have already arrested more than 570 Glasgow gangsters and seized more than &pound;13million in illegal assets.
They have identified more than 40 gangs in the city who “employ” around 900 people. These mobs are engaged in drugs, prostitution, money laundering, tobacco smuggling, counterfeit goods, extortion and the use of legitimate businesses across all sectors.
Detective Superintendent Andy Gunn, head of the Organised Crime Unit in Glasgow, said: “Serious and organised criminals are driven by power and profit.
“All they care about is making money and the consequences of crimes, such as drug dealing and human trafficking, are irrelevant to them.
“They will identify a weakness in an individual or community and capitalise on that.
“There is absolutely no conscious involved in what do, they don’t care about the risk or harm to other people. They only care about profit.”
He added: “Organised crime is present in every community in Glasgow.
“And in all of those communities, there are different issues which need to be tackled.”
Police arrested 572 suspected gangsters, over the past year, in a series of blows to the city’s underworld. They also discovered that organised crime has penetrated communities across Scotland from East Renfrewshire to East Dunbartonshire, with the gangs touching every city, town and village.
During the last year, prosecutors also used the tough Proceeds of Crime Act - POCA - to seize more than &pound;13m in illegal assets and cripple gangsters financially.
Detective Superintendent Gunn, added: “Police staff, uniformed officers and detectives are all have a role to play in fighting serious and organised crime.
 

“But, to really make a difference, the public must engage with us. Serious and organised crime groups are sophisticated and share resources, they work together.
“And in order to beat them, we have to do the same. A lot of the work police do around serious and organised crime is hidden.
“But we are doing a lot of work which does reduce the impact if serious and organised crime and reduce the treat those involved pose.
“We are reliant on information coming from the public and that’s why we have such a commitment to community policing in Glasgow.
“Small information gathered from the public by uniformed officers and our partners piece together to help build a bigger picture about the activities of serious and organised criminals.”
Drugs, such as heroin and cannabis, are the main source of cash but many of the gangs maximise their earnings by getting involved in money laundering, human trafficking, and prostitution.
NEW figures have unveiled the shocking scale of organised crime in Scotland with 230 gangs employing more than 4000 villains.
But the Record can also reveal that the number of gangsters has soared from 3663 people in 2012.
A pioneering project that year revealed that they were tracking 274 gangs who “employed” 3663 people. Their crime mapping project pinpoints individuals who cause the greatest threat, risk and harm to our communities.
The gangs - named Serious and Organised Crime Groups (SOCG) by police - rake in millions from drug dealing, human trafficking, mortgage fraud and bent bids for public contracts.
They set up cannabis farms in disused properties and use tanning salons and private hire cab firms to launder dirty cash.
Former SCDEA director general Graeme Pearson said the industry generates &pound;1billion a year in Scotland.
The crime mapping project revealed: The majority of SOCGs are based in Strathclyde - home to 153 groups comprising 2299 individuals.
The top 20 per cent is made up of 33 gangs with strong links to crime clans abroad.Sixteen of those gangs are worth &pound;84.5million - and the other 17 would take that through &pound;100 million

