NEARLY half of young people who move out of their family home in Glasgow worry about being able to support themselves.According to a survey by Action for Children Scotland, 48% worry about managing bills, 37% about not having anyone to talk to and nearly a third about looking after their new homes.The research showed more than one in five of 16 to 24-year-olds phoned their parents every day after moving out.The charity released details of the study yesterday, (MON) warning the situation was &quot;far worse&quot; for the most vulnerable young people who did not have the skills or support network to live independently.Carol Iddon, director of children's service at Action for Children Scotland, said: &quot;For many young people, moving out of the family home can be an exciting and intrepid first step to independence, with the added advantages of parents who can provide emotional, practical and financial support.&quot;For the young people Action for Children Scotland supports, living independently at a young age is often not a choice, nor does it come with a parental safety net. Their situation is often compounded by having no support network to help them in times of need, and they can be at real risk of losing their home.&quot;Action for Children Scotland provides specialist services for young people who are homeless or at risk of homelessness, including those who have left the care system or have suffered severe relationship breakdown with family.Aidan Carter stayed in homeless accommodation provided by Action for Children Scotland before being offered a council flat. He said: &quot;I never phoned home. My family didn't keep in touch with me, so I didn't keep in touch with them. I was 17-years-old and living alone, responsible for everything.&quot;I was lonely, so I invited my friends round all the time. My flat became the party flat. I had noise complaints from neighbours, and was asked to leave just one month and two weeks after moving in. I say 'asked', but of course I had no choice. I was homeless again.&quot;I'm back in the Action for Children Scotland accommodation now. It's not just a place to stay - I'm learning how to manage a household and I'm growing up. I hope to get a flat again at the end of the year. I think it will be different, I'll be older and better prepared.&quot;He said helping youngsters learn how to budget and basic cooking skills was &quot;vital.&quot;He added: &quot;A home is not simply a roof over your head. It should also be the place where you feel happy, safe and loved.&quot;The charity is looking for people to take part in their annual Byte Night Scotland fundraiser, spending a night sleeping outside to raise vital funds for its youth homelessness services.See bytenight.org.uk or contact the Byte Night team on bytenight@actionforchildren.org.uk