A CITY artist is displaying the world’s first depiction of Machiavellian art - or at least its prince.
Glasgow-based Frank To is showing his interpretation of the famous book, The Prince, and even features some of the text translated into Auld Scots, another first.
The show, at By Distinction Art Gallery in Byres Road until June 13, was inspired by looking at illustrated books for children, especially those by Roald Dahl with illustrations by Quentin Blake. So Frank painted children in a Machiavellian way, because they’re “the most Machiavellian little creatures imaginable”.
He said: “Children have the unique gift of being imaginative and creative. They are more intellectually aware of their surroundings especially with their family.
“Myself and my siblings and my cousins have used Machiavellian tactics to get what we want when we were children, but of course being mischievous do have have consequences, but only if you're caught.
“I suppose in way, my series of work is a visual guide for children to be more Machiavellian. I can just see parents hating me for this.”
Frank, who counts actor Sir Patrick Stewart as a fan and friend, said he wasn’t so much interested in the political context of Machiavelli, but more the morality of his advice in The Prince. He said the book shows how human beings have a “primal urge for power”, but also how to use it effectively.
 

He said: “Machiavelli's teachings from my art school days have constantly echoed in my mind because it allows me to see various people of who they are and their intentions. Some may say that I myself subconsciously am Machiavellian, but I couldn't possibly comment.
“From all the Machiavelli scholars I have consulted, none has found any records of any other artist having depicted The Prince.
“I have always been fascinated by the Italian Renaissance – recent exhibitions have featured Dante’s Divine Comedy and anatomical studies inspired by the great Leonardo Da Vinci – and have been researching how power can be wielded to manipulate others.”
