I'm no holy Joe…but I have often found comfort in my faith.Rosary beads, for those of you who aren't familiar with them, are used to repeat the Hail Mary prayer. In 2007, I was questioned at length without a lawyer at a police station in Edinburgh by the then Lothian and Borders Police Force.Before the interrogation began I politely and civilly asked if I could hold my Rosary. I was indeed permitted to do this. However a few hours into five hours of gruelling questioning my beads (as one officer referred to them) were confiscated from me.To my utter astonishment I was then asked if I had been trained by either the IRA or Provisional IRA. Apparently I had been showing traits of terrorist behaviour.Prior to going to the police station my QC, the late Paul McBride, had advised me to state my name address and date of birth at the beginning of the interview and thereafter say nothing. That was my legal right. It seems the silence and the Rosary beads amounted to evidence of 'IRA training' to these very senior officers.I submitted a complaint against those senior officers. The ones who conducted and orchestrated the six hour interrogation. I found it incredible that in this day and age, were it seems that civil rights and tolerance are extended for most religions, why such tolerance wasn't afforded to me? If I had been wearing a Burka and had remained silent would they have accused me of being a member of Al Qaeda? I don't bloody think so…there would have been an outcry.Anyway I submitted six complaints in total and was initially told that they would uphold only two. In a letter to me they explained that the reason for such gruelling questioning was because I had affirmed at the 2006 court case and as I was a practising Catholic, then I must be lying or else surely I would have taken the religious oath. They said they were justified in asking me about my religion and if I practiced and if I knew telling lies was against 'certain faiths' (I don't know of any which promote lying). All because I affirmed instead of taking the oath. This whole matter was investigated by the top brass at Lothian and Borders and they assured me and my lawyer it was a serious issue and was 'thoroughly investigated'. Then they cleared the officers of any wrong doing. The slight problem with their 'thorough' investigation is that they were wrong. I didn't affirm in 2006. I swore the oath to tell the truth the whole truth and nothing but the truth so help me God. That is exactly what I did during my evidence. So how could the investigation be thorough and what iota of justification did these officers have to quiz me about my religion and how I practice it? It wasn't thorough and they had no justification whatsoever.So at last, five years later, the Police Investigations and Review Commissioner (PIRC) have investigated the police and their internal investigation of my complaints. They have upheld three out of my four complaints and ordered Police Scotland to apologise to me and investigate my complaints again. This time properly. Hopefully they will but I won't hold my breath.Receiving that wee bit of news from my incredible lawyer, Gordon Dangerfield, really kick started my holiday weekend. Tommy had also finished his exams so on Saturday night I decided to let him join us in a tradition normally reserved for 'only us girls' in the house, the Eurovision Song Contest.I had everything set out...cocktails for me, dips, crisps and lots of sweeties for my daughter and niece and a set of ear muffs for my husband who said he'd rather &quot;set his hair on fire&quot;(the little he has left) than be subjected to watching the Euro extravaganza. But he did.To be honest I wished he hadn't, for in my opinion it was one of the dullest I had seen in years. Eurovision is all about cheesy, over the top, glitzy, camp entertainment. This year's crop was all too plain and serious for me. When it had finished Tommy said that was three hours of his life that he would never get back again. So for his cheek I put on former Eurovision winners, ABBA and made him get up and dance. That'll teach him!!!