Desmond McLaughlin was a Royal Marines Commando for almost two decades and also served in the reserves for 19 years.The 61-year-old was on the frontline in both Iraq wars, in the Balkans conflict and was sent on three tours of Afghanistan.He now sleeps in his car at a retail park in Glasgow's south side because he's been unable to get a house after splitting from his wife.Mr McLaughlin, who is originally from Easterhouse, said: &quot;We were the first ones in to Afghanistan. We had to drive from Kabul Airport to Bagram airbase in three vehicles. It was scary. The locals weren't very happy to see us.&quot;We had to clear a minefield when we got there. One guy was carrying two mines and lost both of his arms. I was 500 yards away.&quot;Then two Americans got off a helicopter and one of them stood on a mine and lost a leg. The other one died of shock.&quot;I lost a lot of pals in Afghanistan. Two of my best mates were killed by improvised explosive devices. I don't know if I've got PTSD but sometimes I get a bit emotional. It still hurts.&quot;Mr McLaughlin is a chef at a retirement home and collects an armed forces pension but can't afford the deposit and first month's rent required to secure a one bedroom flat.He said: &quot;Everyone thinks we get big pensions but I only get about &pound;300 a month after tax and I only make about &pound;800 a month from my job.&quot;It's at least &pound;500 for a bedsit in some areas but I'd need &pound;1000 if you include the deposit. I can just about afford it but I wouldn't be able to eat or run a car.&quot;The former marine is more than six feet tall and has to squeeze into a small car every night. In the last two years he's had a heart attack and a perforated ulcer.He said: &quot;I almost died twice. I used to be fit but not anymore. It's a bit cold in the car so I've bought a quilt.&quot;I got caught out one day and got soaked. I had to drive the car around with the heating on to dry off. When my car was in for an MOT I had to walk the streets.&quot;I sometimes go to a friend's house to get a shower. I can go to Wetherspoons for a meal and a drink for a fiver.&quot;If I'm on early shift I can eat at work, maybe have a bit of toast and a coffee. I'll maybe have a plate of soup during the day. I'm not a big eater.&quot;Mr McLaughlin would like to get a council house but he's been told he doesn't have enough points.He has been to the council's homelessness casework team to ask for emergency accommodation but claims he wasn't offered a place.He added: &quot;I went there four weeks ago and they said they'd call me back but I'm still waiting. I just want to get somewhere settled so that I can leave work and know I've got somewhere to go.&quot;