Phone provider O2 has said its service is &quot;back to normal&quot; after customers complained of problems with reception in several parts of the UK. 
The company has apologised after people in areas including London, Manchester, Bristol, Glasgow and parts of Northern Ireland said they had lost signal.
Business Secretary Sajid Javid was among those expressing frustration on Twitter, asking O2 to &quot;sort it out&quot;.
O2 said an investigation into the cause of the problem had been launched.
A spokesman said &quot;some customers experienced some problems accessing our network&quot; and that the service had returned to normal at 23:35 BST on Monday.
He added: &quot;We apologise for any inconvenience caused to those customers affected and we will now begin a full investigation to identify the root cause.&quot;
Many O2 customers had taken to social media complaining of not being able to send or receive calls and text messages, as well as problems with the 3G internet signal.
While the problems were ongoing, it had advised people to reset their device, and visit its support page if problems persisted.
O2 said it was continuing to monitor the situation and was working with its suppliers to investigate how the signal failure occurred. 
Media and technology analyst Matthew Howett told BBC Breakfast the fact that O2 had advised customers to turn their phones off and on again suggested &quot;a problem with registering with the network&quot;. 
He said while it was still unclear what had caused the issue, &quot;a piece of software not doing its job properly&quot; could have been to blame. 
Are you on the O2 network? How is your service? You can share your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. 
If you are available to talk further with a BBC journalist, please include a contact telephone number.
Or comment here:
Required field
If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published. When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others, take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions.
 
Terms and conditions

