This has been a good month.
Ireland have become the first country in history to put marriage equality to the public vote - and come out of it looking rather spectacular.
Sweden won the Eurovision Song Contest with a rather strange ensemble of Beyonce-esque live animation mixed with a darkly themed jingle of childhood traumas and heroic recoveries. M&aring;ns Zelmerl&ouml;w probably got lost in the Ikea bedroom department one day when taking a wander with his parents and never quite got over it.
In any case we’re all pretty positive this month what with the weather, the wide-spread feeling of community and socialism and the fact that British radio stations don’t have to give anymore airtime to their god-awful Eurovision entry this year. It’s summer. The festival season is here and we’re cracking open the Pimms.
 I took my mum to Glasgow’s leg of the Ideal Home Show tour. It was held in the SECC and was, suffice to say, huge. 
Na&iuml;ve as I am, I expected to see row upon row of flooring, lighting and granite pebble dash salesmen. They were all there, obviously. You couldn’t move for battery-operated fireplaces and garden sheds so big you could fit your gran and four cats in them. But what I was most impressed with was the wide display of art, and a general sense of a better, more eco-friendly future.
The artists were all extremely talented and more than happy to chat away about their work and their travels.
One young artist, Casey Allum, particularly stood out with her stunning sketches of wild animals and custom-painted pets. It was lovely and completely unexpected to find someone with a genuinely superb talent amidst the slightly more predictable highland cow pillows and memory foam mattresses.
 I came away from the Ideal Home Show thinking how much I love the idea that improving ones home is to make it much more friendly to the environment. 
Plants, low-energy lighting, solar panels and natural building materials were all included in the marvelous display put before us.
Unfortunately there were a few companies who missed the boat here, and decided to throw in a few very big fumy cars as well as intelli-houses with fully automated - and let me stress quite superfluous - gadgets sprinkled all over the high-tech garish-looking homes of the future. There were extremes, to say the least.
 I couldn’t keep my mother there for long as she began to yell at me for wine tasting at the Lidl market stand and declared very loudly to whomever was listening how utterly dreadful some of the couches were. But on the whole I thoroughly enjoyed the show. And I managed to calm mum down with cheese samples and the rather magnificent House Beautiful , which she wanted to order on the spot. 
We are certainly looking into the future in a very speedy way. Whether it be in a bedroom which wakes you up in the morning by pulling its own curtains open, or simply changing a country's political ideologies, I am happy in the knowledge that we are gradually moving towards a happy place where the world is just that little bit better than it was yesterday.
And I very much hope it continues.
