A drunken youth who admitted abducting another teenager before overturning a car has been detained for 40 months.
Daryl Orr, 17, attacked and robbed Jack Smith at his family's home in Glasgow before forcing the 18-year-old into his mother's car on 9 March this year.
Orr, who was dressed in a kilt after attending a wedding, later overturned the car at high speed on a roundabout.
At the High Court in Edinburgh, Orr was also banned from driving for three years and told to re-sit a test.
Judge Lord Turnbull told Orr that the public could not be expected to put up with his &quot;violent and anti-social conduct&quot;. 
The judge said there was a sense in a background report prepared on him that he had come to appreciate the extent of his wrongdoing and how drink and drug abuse had led him into difficulties. 
But the judge added: &quot;It is a little late for that now, given in particular that the present offences were committed only a matter of days after the imposition of a community payback order which you treated with complete contempt by failing to even attend for the first meeting.&quot; 
The court heard that Orr confronted his victim at his family's house in the Sandyhills area of Glasgow and told him: &quot;If you scream or yell, I'll beat...you.&quot; 
He then attacked and robbed Mr Smith before taking him on a high-speed journey in his mother's car.
Orr almost collided with a van at Coatbridge Road, in Bargeddie, North Lanarkshire. 
Two workmen in the van said the Honda car was &quot;flying and driving easily at 70 mph&quot; when it undertook their vehicle. 
After swerving to avoid the van, Orr continued on but failed to take a roundabout and the car ended up on its roof. 
Orr got out of the vehicle and Mr Smith also managed to crawl out. 
Police were contacted and found Orr near the scene. He said he had been drinking, had no licence and &quot;had just got a driving ban&quot;. 
Orr, formerly of Renfrew, admitted offences including assaulting and robbing Mr Smith, abducting him and driving dangerously at grossly excessive speed while under the influence of alcohol. 
