DUNKIRK was swamped with more than 300,000 British troops by the time Scots soldier Jimmy Pyke arrived.
The sapper had raced through Belgium and northern France to escape the advancing Nazi forces.
As a Royal Engineer, the 21-year-old was ordered to destroy bridges as they fled in a desperate bid to slow down their enemies.
Jimmy, now 96, was one of the last men off the beach as soldiers headed back to Britain on a rag-tag flotilla of boats and ships.
He has spoken for the first time about his experiences – almost 75 years to the day since one of the most daring military operations in modern history.
He said: “It is very difficult to remember what was going through my mind at the time. Everything was so strange to you – you didn’t know the country or anything.
“When everyone got the order to head for Dunkirk, the first thing we said was, ‘Where the hell is Dunkirk?’
“We did feel as if we had been defeated. It felt terrible, like it was all for nothing.”
Jimmy, of Neilston, Renfrewshire, was an apprentice engineer when he joined the Territorial Army.
Within months, World War II was declared and Jimmy found himself in 238 Field Company of the Royal Engineers.
Attached to 51st Highland Division, they served in France and Belgium before they were sent to join the 1st Infantry Division.
Jimmy was in Brussels when he learned German forces had crossed the border and were heading their way.
Troops would have to retreat to the little-known seaside town of Dunkirk and await rescue.
Jimmy’s job blowing up bridges after the last British soldiers crossed meant he came perilously close to being snared.

He said: “On one instance somewhere in Belgium – I can’t remember where – we received a false message that there were six of our Bren gun carriers still to come over a bridge.
“We were standing on the bridge and had prepared it for blowing. The next thing I saw was one of our men running back, shouting that it was German small tanks that were coming.
“The Germans were right upon us with their machine guns and firing at us from the other side of the bridge. But we managed to blow it up and get away.
“Our wagons were about 200 yards from the bridge. I remember running up a road to get to them and there were bombs dropping, almost forming a circle.
“Everybody there got through. That was the first time I came face to face with the German forces.”
The Royal Engineers’ heroics continued throughout their retreat until they were just two miles from Dunkirk.
Jimmy said: “I don’t know if you can imagine what the roads were like. There were troops from every nation trying to get back and Belgian civilians trying to escape.
“Outside Dunkirk, we had to get rid of everything. We had wagons of stuff that we had to leave behind.
“Because we were blowing up bridges and waiting on troops getting across, we were some of the last to get into the town.
“Everything was already blown up. The harbour was destroyed and the German planes were flying over us all the time.
“A big problem was trying to get a bite to eat in Dunkirk. It was terrible. I saw soldiers running on to the beach when the bombing waves started.
“They would dig a hole in the sand and stick their heads in. Their backsides were sticking up in the air but everyone was more concerned about their heads.
“They were dropping bombs on the beach and you had to try to take shelter. There were so many people killed or wounded.”
 

At one point, Jimmy and his comrades had to take shelter in a tram car on the promenade.
He said: “These German bombers were diving down and firing at us.
“We were hanging out the side, shooting at them with our rifles. We never made a mark on them.
“There were times they would come down so low you could see the pilots.
“It wasn’t long before we were running down the beach. Everything was on the beach by that time.
“The big ships couldn’t come in and Royal Engineers were told not to leave Dunkirk.”
They had a crucial role in what came next. Jimmy said: “Troops were queuing up on the beaches and we were supposed to ferry them out on small boats. That went on for days and days.
“You just slept on the beach, in the street … anywhere. But you didn’t get much sleep anyway.
“There wasn’t a lot of panic. You think back now and you feel that maybe there should have been.”
As the number of troops on the beach fell, Jimmy feared they would never get home. He said: “Somehow it had quietened down.
“Most of the troops had got away back to England. There came a point where we thought we weren’t going to get away.
“I remember walking along a part of the beach where there was no one else on it … I felt that at the time.
 

“But then this chap came up to me in the middle of the night. He said to me, ‘Right, there is a boat there. Get on it.’
“It was a small ship that carried coal up and down the coast of England.
“I was in a hell of state when I got to England. I was so exhausted I can hardly remember getting on to a ship at all.”
Back in UK, the Royal Engineers helped fortify and protect the coast from Nazi invasion. Jimmy set up mines, built concrete pillboxes and laid down barbed wire.
In 1942, he volunteered to serve in India and help protect Burma against a Japanese invasion, passing on vital skills to Indian sappers.
After the war, Jimmy met wife Betty at a dance in Barrhead, near Glasgow. They went on to have four children, 10 grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
He had a long career as a factory foreman at a local engineering firm.
His mind still goes back to Dunkirk and he was invited to Ramsgate in Kent to see off a flotilla as part of the 75th anniversary. But he was too frail to attend.
“I was thinking today about how I felt at the time,” he said.
“You thought about nothing except the job you were doing and what was going on round about you. It was your job and you had to do it.”
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

