Venue: Kingspan Stadium, Belfast Date: Saturday, 30 May Kick-off: 18:30 BST
Coverage: Live on BBC Two Scotland, Radio Scotland and BBC Sport website
 Stuart Hogg is adamant Glasgow Warriors have all the components of Pro12 champions as Saturday's final looms. 
 With a host of central figures leaving the club this summer, Hogg says there is a sense among the players that now is their time. 
 &quot;We've got the players, coaching staff and management here to be lifting trophies,&quot; he told BBC Scotland. 
 &quot;52 players have played in the Glasgow jersey this season; it's very much a team effort.&quot; 
 The Warriors fell at the final hurdle 12 months ago but, having topped the domestic standings, are better placed to become the first Scottish team to claim silverware at the expense of Munster this time around. 
 Hogg scored an audacious solo try to spark the second-half blitz that subdued Ulster a fortnight ago - a moment of inspiration several teammates cited as crucial to overcoming a turgid opening - and played his part in last Friday's semi-final win over the same opposition. 
 &quot;Since I came to the club five years ago, we've been in semi-finals and finals ever since,&quot; said the full-back. &quot;This season I've enjoyed every moment of it, and it's very much where I want to be. 
 &quot;The last few weeks have defined us as a club, where we've been and where we're at right now. We targeted at the start of the season being the first Scottish team to win a title and we're in a great position to do that.&quot; 
 A Musgrave Park hat-trick against Munster in 2012 won teenage Hogg great acclaim, and the proud Hawick native has grown accustomed to gruelling battles with the Irish province. 
 &quot;We've played Munster on many an occasion - we know where they're strong and where a couple of their weaknesses lie,&quot; said the 22-year-old. 
 &quot;We've got a game plan and structures in place that the coaches have worked hard on and believe can break down Munster. 
 &quot;For individuals, it's about getting their roles and responsibilities spot-on; that'll ultimately help the team. The coaches have got their structures in place for us to abide by, and the boys are massively excited for what's ahead. 
 &quot;Up front if we can match their physicality - they're a massively physical side - and hopefully better that, then we stand ourselves in good stead for setting up a solid platform for our backs to create some space.&quot; 
