REFERENDUMS are a bit like the proverbial bus. You wait years for one and then another quickly comes along.
While the repercussions of the independence referendum are still being felt, we must now turn our mind to the European referendum that could be held as early as next year. 
Let me state my position straight away. For lots of reasons, not least the tens of thousands of Glasgow jobs dependent on trade with Europe, I will definitely be voting for Britain to remain a full member of the EU.
And I sincerely hope that 16 and 17-year-olds will be able to vote in that referendum too.
In my experience, young people take social issues very seriously. They may not be as readily aligned to a particular political party as their parents or grandparents generations.
That doesn't mean they aren't interested in issues like equality, climate change, international peace, educational and job opportunities, and so on. 
If 16-year-olds are old enough to marry, work and pay taxes, and serve in the armed forces, they should be entitled to vote.
It is high time that the voting age was reduced to 16 for all elections in Britain.
Otherwise, it could appear that the decision on whether a 16-year-old can vote in a particular election is decided by government on a case-by-case basis.
It doesn't seem principled to say that you can vote this time but not next time. It could risk the impression that politicians are trying to manipulate the outcome.
The very idea of that undermines our democracy.
 

I WAS delighted with the news that BAE will be investing &pound;100 million in their Govan and Scotstoun yards.
The Type 26 Frigate contracts from the UK government will secure thousands of highly skilled jobs on the Clyde for many years to come.
The announcement ends months of speculation that all of the investment would be made in Scotstoun and Govan would close. Instead, both yards will remain open. This is an ideal outcome.
The workers at both shipyards have set the highest example of professionalism and dignity during this period of uncertainty when BAE were developing their plans. 
And the trade unions have played a vital role in securing this investment and winning the Royal Navy contract. The investment in both Govan and Scotstoun is a testament to the skills and dedication of the workforce.
This is good news for Glasgow.
***
LAST week I had the honour of speaking to graduates of the Scottish Drugs Forum’s Addiction Workers Training Project. It was a humbling and moving experience.
In all, 14 people graduated from the scheme this year. These are people who have overcome their own battles with addiction to drugs and alcohol, and have turned their lives around. 
The project supports recovered addicts to achieve a professional qualification that allows them to work with others who still struggle with addiction.
The graduates are able to draw on their own personal experiences which gives them a very direct and relevant understanding of those they work with.
A remarkable 85 per cent of those who have completed the training programme have found full-time work.
Many of the graduates spoke of how much their lives have improved after completing the training. They expressed gratitude to their mentors, families and friends.
They spoke candidly about their own journey from the depths of addiction to a life of hope, new skills and stability. Their sense of pride was tangible, made all the more stark by the contrast with the difficulties they had overcome.
One individual spoke of how addiction had made him incapable of committing to a relationship, holding down a job or maintaining a tenancy.
Now, he is clean, married, a father, in full time employment and using his life experiences to offer guidance and support to others.
One of the best things about my job is meeting remarkable people. It was an honour to meet so many of them at the Scottish Drugs' Forum graduation.
