THESE shocking pictures show a window cleaner balancing on a top floor ledge -- without ANY safety equipment.
The man appears to use only his left hand to cling on to the outside of a third floor flat while wiping the windows with his other hand.
Witnesses said he left the property through the window before carrying out the dangerous task, branding him &quot;fearless&quot; but &quot;stupid&quot;.
 Barry McLauchlan, 22, who was working on the opposite side of Caird Drive, Glasgow, recorded the terrifying moment on Monday morning. 
 The labourer, from Hamilton, South Lanarkshire, said: &quot;I was just working away and looked across the street. I noticed this window cleaner. 
 

&quot;I thought nothing of it, but the more I stared I noticed he wasn't wearing any safety equipment. There was no harness or safety aids.
&quot;I was shocked. I was fearing more for his life than he was.
&quot;I saw him climb out of the window. He closed it behind him and washed the window as if it was a ground floor and nothing had happened.
&quot;Except from his hand holding on to the window, there was nothing keeping him there.&quot;
The daring window cleaner was wearing a red jumpsuit to carry out the dangerous task, but his identity remains unknown.
Barry and his colleagues believe he must be self-employed or just a member of the public.
He said: &quot;I work in the construction industry and know how important it is to stick to health and safety.
&quot;He's a braver guy than I am. But there is fearless and then there is stupid.
&quot;You've got to think about health and safety. My thought is that this guy is self-employed because any company's insurance would not have paid for that.&quot;
The Health and Safety Executive (HSE), which regulates the workplace, said it could not comment as the man may have just been a member of the public.
But a spokesman added: &quot;Falls from height are one of the biggest causes of workplace fatalities and major injuries, and we would hope anyone working at height took necessary precautions to prevent an incident.&quot;
 Test your knowledge with our quiz: 

