JANE Avril had a life that was terrible and amazing in equal measures.
The daughter of a Parisian prostitute, she grew up to be a dancer at the Moulin Rouge and one of the most famous figures of the belle epoque.
A turn-of-the-century celebrity, she did this while suffering from St Vitus Dance, a disorder caused by childhood rheumatic fever which causes spasms in the hands, feet and face.
The sick Jane, having already been sold for sex by her mother, was sent to the notorious Piti&eacute;-Salp&ecirc;tri&egrave;re.
This was the asylum where all the people Paris did not want washed up.
And this was the place where theatre director Garry Robson first encountered her. He had been given a book on the Salp&ecirc;tri&egrave;re and was &shy;fascinated by photos of the people there.
 

“It was a hell on earth sort of place,” he said, between rehearsals for his show Crazy Jane, which tells Jane’s story.
“If they didn’t have &shy;psychiatric symptoms before they went in, after a few weeks, they would have.”
For someone who writes plays, directs and acts, this was rich material. He was intrigued by Jean-Martin Charcot, the neurologist who worked at the asylum.
Charcot called the women “hysterics”. And he conducted his experiments with them before an &shy;audience.
Garry said: “Asylums were places of &shy;entertainment where you could go and look at the mad.
“He would do public demonstrations twice a week – very theatrical ones – with a hysteric. It was a freak show dressed up as science.”
Garry knew he wanted to set a play in the Salp&ecirc;tri&egrave;re. Then, when he saw a Toulouse Lautrec painting of Crazy Jane at an exhibition in London, he had his story.
 

He said: “Jane learned to dance at the Salp&ecirc;tri&egrave;re. She left there with an individual style of movement and she used to say the reason was the time she spent in the asylum.
“Her childhood was awful. Luckily, Jane ended up in the asylum. It was her saviour.”
For Garry, who uses a wheelchair and is creative director of Birds of Paradise theatre company, who work with disabled and able-bodied actors, this was worth exploring.
Jane Avril used the crazy, jerky movements of St Vitus Dance in her own routines and created a new, modern style of movement that became the talk of the age.
Garry said: “What made that uniqueness was her disability.”
When it came to putting Jane’s story on stage, he knew he wanted more than a costume drama with lace-up boots and frilly knickers.
 

To bring the story into the 21st century, he brought in Glaswegian hip-hop duo Hector Bizerk, who have written music for the show.
A bigger problem was the movement. At the fag end of the 19th century, Jane’s routines were incredibly daring and outrageous.
Compared with a Nicki Minaj video, they are as mild as milk.
So Garry’s job is to capture the excitement that her moves caused but for a YouTube-savvy audience. He said: “What you’re after is the energy and the essence.”
 Try our quick showbiz quiz below: 

