Glasgow's Arches nightclub is to launch an appeal against the recent decision to withdraw its late licence.
Earlier this month, the venue's opening hours were restricted by Glasgow Licensing Board amid claims about drug and alcohol incidents.
The move sparked a storm of criticism from the public and artists who said the decision would effectively lead to the closure of the attached arts venue.
Agreement on short-term funding for the arts venue has now been reached.
Creative Scotland and Glasgow City Council are to provide an advance on funding already agreed for this year and next year to allow the venue to &quot;explore possible avenues for the continuation of cultural programmes&quot;, said a spokeswoman for the venue.
Following a meeting earlier this month, the nightclub's licence was restricted to midnight by the licensing board. It was previously allowed to stay open until 03:00.
Thousands of people signed a petition in protest at the decision, while more than 400 cultural figures - including Makar Liz Lochhead, novelist Irvine Welsh and members of Mogwai, Belle &amp; Sebastian and Franz Ferdinand - put their signatures to a letter criticising the move.
The Arches' artistic director Lucy Mason and executive director Mark Anderson said the venue was &quot;grateful&quot; for the new funding package, which would provide &quot;stability in the short term&quot;. 
A more permanent funding solution would be sought in the weeks to come, they added.
A statement from the directors said: &quot;Having taken appropriate legal advice, we believe there are grounds to appeal the decision of the licensing board and will now proceed on that basis.&quot;
All scheduled arts events between now and the end of June would go ahead as planned, said a spokeswoman, with club events moved to alternative venues. 
In April, police made an unsuccessful bid to have the club closed after a woman was found unconscious and officers recorded 26 drug and alcohol-related incidents.
Last year, The Arches announced it was raising its minimum age for admission to 21 after the suspected drug-related death of a teenage girl who fell ill at the venue. 
The over-18s policy was later reinstated.
Regane MacColl, 17, died after becoming ill at the club in February 2014. Police linked her death to an ecstasy-like &quot;Mortal Kombat&quot; tablet.
Those who signed the petition said Glasgow's cultural life and night-time economy would be severely damaged by the curtailment of the club's opening hours.
The letter, from writers, actors, directors DJs and artists, stated: &quot;As a key venue at the centre of Glasgow's remarkable cultural renaissance of the past 25 years, The Arches' importance to the future of the cultural life of Scotland cannot be overstated.
&quot;And yet this latest decision leaves it in an extremely compromised situation, the cultural ramifications of which are huge.&quot;
However, police said they had &quot;acted to protect and ensure public safety&quot; by pursuing a review of the venue's licence.
