Coverage: Listen on BBC Radio Scotland 810MW/DAB/online; live text commentary on BBC Sport website
 Rangers have an unchanged squad for Thursday's Scottish Premiership play-off final first leg meeting with Motherwell. 
 Defender Sebastien Faure, who has been out for several weeks, remains sidelined. 
 Motherwell do not have any injuries for the trip to Ibrox. 
 Experienced pair Keith Lasley and Scott McDonald are likely to return for the Steelmen, having been left out at the weekend. 
 Rangers, who finished third in the Championship, reached the final after winning two-legged rounds against Queen of the South and Hibernian, while Motherwell were consigned to the play-off after finishing second bottom of the Premiership. 
 The two sides will meet again at Fir Park on Sunday, with the overall winner claiming a place in next season's Premiership. 
  Rangers manager Stuart McCall:  &quot;Since I've had a pair of football boots at four years old, I've always wanted to win. 
 &quot;My kids will tell you that I've left them in tears at times after beating them at Monopoly. 
 &quot;It's how I am. And just like Keith Lasley, Stevie Hammell and the rest will be wanting to win for Motherwell, it's in me to do the same. 
 &quot;Football can be ruthless, but this is just the way it has turned out. 
 &quot;I'm quite a loyal person and I had almost four brilliant years at Motherwell. But my thoughts on that and what comes next for them will only come after Sunday's match. 
 &quot;I'm fully focused on doing the job I came here to do. Rangers are my club and we want to get promoted.&quot; 
  Motherwell manager Ian Baraclough:  &quot;We've got some really good flair players who can go win a game. We are going to go there and try to score. 
 &quot;We are not going to try to sit back and defend. 
 &quot;Rangers are a good side themselves. They've got a bit of momentum going as well so we know we'll have that to contend with. 
 &quot;We know it will be a fervent crowd. We are going to have to silence them as much as we can. 
 &quot;As a player, I wanted to thrive on that. I wanted to quieten a crowd, I wanted to put them on the back foot and it can turn against the home team and that's what you need to do as an opposition. 
 &quot;You are not expected to go there and do well. People have written us off from the off on this one and that feeling of upsetting the odds, that appeals to me.&quot; 
