TRIBUTES have been paid to an eight-year-old boy who was killed by a tombstone while playing with friends in a Glasgow cemetery
Ciaran Williamson was killed following an accident in Craigton Cemetery in the Cardonald area of the city at 7.25pm on Tuesday night.
Medics rushed to Craigton Cemetery in the Cardonald area of Glasgow and Ciaran was taken to the city’s Yorkhill hospital but was sadly pronounced dead a short time later.
Two other boys, both aged 10, were also hospitalised, with one being described as being in a “stable” condition and the other being released.
Thomas McManus, 10, was with Ciaran when the tragedy struck.
He said: “We just walked through the hole in the wall into the graveyard and there was a tree that we were going to climb.
“Three of us climbed up it, including me and Ciaran, and when we jumped off and landed the top of the gravestone wobbled and fell over.
“It had a triangle bit at the top and it fell off and hit Ciaran in the face and me in the back too.
“Ciaran got knocked unconscious, there was blood coming out of his mouth and his eye.
“I was going to stay with him but the others were too scared to get his mum so I had to run all the way round and get his step dad and show him where it was.
“Then they phoned the ambulance and the police. The ambulance and police had to lift up the gravestone to get him out because he was stuck under it.
“It was really big. As tall as an adult. They’re bigger at the bottom and then they have a point at the top.
“The other boy had half of his foot cut off. I didn’t get to see Ciaran at the hospital.”
Thomas said he does not go to play in the cemetery very often, but that other local children use it because there are no playparks nearby.
He said: “There’s nowhere else to go except for the school’s playgrounds.
“I was crying afterwards and all this morning. I’ve not spoken to Ciaran’s parents yet.
“Everyone’s off school today because of it.”
It is understood that Ciaran attended Lourdes Primary School which is at the south side of the cemetery.
Pinned to the railings outside Ciaran’s home are a number of tributes to the tragic schoolboy.
A Celtic football shirt placed by Thomas was among the flowers and teddy bears left in his memory.
On the football jersey, Thomas wrote: “RIP Kieran. G.B.N.F Pal. Missed by T.J”
A note left on one bouquet read: “You will always be missed Kieran. James, Sandra &amp; TJ.”
A spokesman for Glasgow City Council said: “This is a tragic incident and our hearts go out to the child’s family and friends. We will be assisting Police Scotland with their investigation.”
In a brief statement, Ciaran Williamson’s family said: “We would like to take this opportunity to inform you that our son Ciaran James Williamson sadly passed away in a tragic accident at Craigton Crematorium.
“We would respectfully ask that you respect our privacy at this distressing time.”
Detective Inspector Tom McKean of Police Scotland added: “This is such a tragic set of circumstances and our thoughts are with Ciaran’s family.
“Enquiries are ongoing however the incident is not being treated as suspicious and a full report will be submitted to the Procurator Fiscal.”
A Police Scotland spokesman added: “Around 7.25pm on Tuesday May 26, police and emergency services responded to reports of three boys having been injured within Craigton Cemetery in Cardonald.
“An eight-year-old boy was taken to Yorkhill where doctors pronounced him dead.
“A ten-year-old boy was also taken to Yorkhill where hospital staff described his condition as stable.
“Another ten-year-old boy was taken to South Glasgow University Hospital and has since been discharged.
“Inquiries are continuing to determine the full circumstances surrounding the incident however officers are not treating it as suspicious.
“A report will be submitted to the procurator fiscal.”
In a brief statement, Ciaran Williamson’s family said: “We would like to take this opportunity to inform you that our son Ciaran James Williamson sadly passed away in a tragic accident at Craigton Crematorium.
“We would respectfully ask that you respect our privacy at this distressing time.”
Detective Inspector Tom McKean of Police Scotland added: “This is such a tragic set of circumstances and our thoughts are with Ciaran’s family.
“Enquiries are ongoing however the incident is not being treated as suspicious and a full report will be submitted to the Procurator Fiscal.”


