A WAR hero who fought for his country for 40 years is living in his car because he is too poor to afford a flat.
Desmond McLaughlin, 61, beds down in his Honda Jazz in a shopping mall car park.
He has been homeless since splitting from his wife five weeks ago.
Desmond works as a chef in a retirement home but says he can’t afford the deposit and rent up front for a flat.
He said: “Everyone thinks we get big pensions but I only get about &pound;300 a month after tax and I only make about &pound;800 a month from my job.
“It’s at least &pound;500 for a bedsit in some areas but I’d need &pound;1000 if you include the deposit.
“I can just about afford it but I wouldn’t be able to eat or run a car.”
Desmond was a Royal Marine for almost 20 years and he served in the reserves for 19 years.
Speaking of his homeless plight, he said: “It has been a nightmare.
“Going through this is tough but trying to hold down a job at the same time is very hard.”
Desmond was on the frontline in both Iraq wars. He was also in the Balkans conflict and he completed three tours in Afghanistan.
 

He said: “We were the first ones into Afghanistan. We had to drive from Kabul airport to Bagram airbase in three vehicles. It was scary. The locals weren’t very happy to see us.
“We had to clear a minefield when we got there. One guy was carrying two mines and lost both of his arms. I was 500 yards away.
“Then, two Americans got off a helicopter and one of them stood on a mine and lost a leg. The other one died of shock.
“I lost a lot of pals in Afghanistan. Two of my best mates were killed by improvised explosive devices. I don’t know if I’ve got post-traumatic stress disorder but sometimes I get a bit emotional. It still hurts.”
Desmond, from Easterhouse, Glasgow, sleeps in his car on the south side. He showers at work.
He has suffered a heart attack and a perforated ulcer in the last two years. Desmond wants social housing but as a single man he’s been told he doesn’t have enough points.
Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

