LAST week we announced that the popular city runner 2.8 Hours later is back in Glasgow with their all-new game and storyline, Ruin.
The game, developed by award-winning game designers, Slingshot, is now in its sixth year, with over 60,000 people having already taken part in 2.8 Hours Later to date. This year alone there were over 18,000 participants, 5,000 of which played in the London games over Halloween.
 Slingshot don't just need players running to hold onto their intestines a bit longer, they need zombies too. 
 

 For anyone who feels that stepping into the shoes of the walking dead would be far more fun than outrunning the hungry hoards, then look no further than “Zombie School”. Meet people, eat people.. just the usual.  
Rather than participate as a survivor in the game, zombie volunteers play an integral role in making up the hordes of undead out to destroy the last living souls on earth. The storyline starts with a rumoured vial found in the hands of a dying scientist.
This leads survivors’ on the hunt for mysterious vials that could contain a cure to the zombie disease. The plot thickens to uncover clues behind the scientist, a criminal conspiracy and the truth of what the vials really contain.
To unearth the truth survivors will have to make it passed hordes of the 2.8 Hours Later undead, will they survive
 

 At Zombie School all volunteers are taught how to act as convincing zombies. This unique school is led by professional ‘Head Zombie’ Alex Noble who has been acting as a zombie in 2.8 Hours Later for six years, since the street game was launched.   
Alex says: “Being on the other side is so much fun, seeing the fear on people’s faces can be hilarious because at the end of the day we’re only in makeup; but it’s amazing how in to the game everyone gets.”
By the end of Zombie School, each volunteer will have learnt how to move, act and think like a convincing, realistic, flesh eating zombie.
 &quot;Those who ‘graduate’ from the school will then be invited to take part in the actual game when it comes to Glasgow. All zombies are also gifted with a free ticket to play the game in their city.  
 

Simon Evans co-founded 2.8 Hours Later with his business partner Simon Johnson.
 He said: “We visited Glasgow last year and as the game continues to grow in popularity we thought we’d bring it back to the city for an even more spectacular event. 
“People are always looking for something that will drag them out of their comfort zone and ‘Ruin’ will do just that.”

  To volunteer as a zombie for the 2015 version of the game “Ruin”, please visit http://2.8hourslater.com/volunteering and fill in your details to come along this weekend (May 30th and May 31st). (A deposit is required when signing up, however this will be returned in full after the commitment is fulfilled) 
Zombie School is on May 30th and 31st. 
 Try our quick entertainment quiz below: 

