 ROD Stewart is urging his fans to buy a charity single recorded by Scots twins as a tribute to their tragic friend. 
 Brittany and Rachelle Davies, 15, wrote Shout Out after their pal Heather took her own life last year. 
The talented duo were stunned yesterday when rock legend Stewart got in touch to say he wanted to back the ballad.
And he called on fans to buy the track, which is raising money for mental health charity Young Minds.
 He tweeted: “A pleasure to see young talent giving back. Purchase Glasgow’s @Rach_Britt’s first single &amp; support  @YoungMindsUK.” 


Brittany, who penned the lyrics, said: “We wrote to Rod Stewart but we never in a million years expected to hear back.
“It is just amazing that he has decided to back us and he also backed our single on Twitter.
“It really gives us confidence because if Rod Stewart thinks the song is good then it must be OK.”
The twins, from Eaglesham, near Glasgow, were devastated when Heather died.
Brittany said: “I was in my room not long after when the lyrics and melody for a song kept going through my head.
“I wrote the words down in my maths jotter and showed it to Rachelle and it got stuck in her head for days as well.
“We started working on it together, adding harmonies, and it evolved and grew from there.”
 

They played it to their voice coach Robert Wishart, who helped them to get it recorded professionally. And they decided to release it to raise awareness of young people struggling with their mental health.
Rachelle said: “We wanted to use the song to bring something positive out of a really sad situation.
“Heather’s family were approached with the idea. They gave it their blessing and chose Young Minds as the charity.
“I hope that other young people will be able to relate to the song.
 “And I hope that it helps to make everyone more aware of mental health problems and the fact  that they affect young people too. 

“It is really exciting because it is helping our generation overcome one of the biggest problems in the country right now.”
Shout Out is available on iTunes, Spotify and from online music stores.
And the Royal Conservatoire of Scotland have also made a video of the song, capturing some of the issues which affect young people’s mental health.

