A YOUNG lad has told how he watched in horror as his tragic his eight-year-old pal was hit by a tombstone as they played in a cemetry.
Tragic Ciaran Williamson was killed in Craigton Cemetery, Glasgow, on Tuesday evening.
Pal Thomas McManus spoke of the horrific moment his best friend was fatally struck by part of a gravestone after they jumped off a tree.
The 10-year-old, whose pal Adrian, 10, was also badly hurt, said: “I was crying last night and all today. I am going to miss him so much - he was one of my best friends.
 
“We were playing at the flats and the concierge said we had to go and play somewhere else, so we decided to go to the graveyard.
“We were there for just 10 seconds when two of us decided to climb up a tree.
“Me and Adrian jumped out of the tree at the same time and when we hit the ground the gravestone started to wobble.
“We all ran, but it hit Ciaran in the face, it hit me on the back and slashed Adrian’s foot down to the bone.
 

“Ciaran was knocked out and stuck under the gravestone.”
When Thomas couldn’t wake Ciaran, he took injured pal Adrian back to the nearby flats where they all live, and alerted Ciaran’s step-ded Thomas to what had happened.
Ciaran’s mum, Stephanie, and her partner went to the graveyard where emergency services arrived and lifted the six-foot headstone before rushing Ciaran to hospital.
Despite medics best efforts, they were unable to save him.
Adrian’s parents were by his bedside as he recovered from his injuries.
Thomas was discharged from hospital following treatment.
All three are pupils at the nearby Lourdes Primary School.
Tragic Ciaran’s family have paid tribute to him on Facebook.
Grandad Thomas McGee said: “Such a sad day. I’ve lost my wee grandson, he was 8. A loss to this world, r.i.p.wee man. Gone but not forgotten. xx.”
His aunt, Caroline McGee posted: “My thoughts and prayers are with my we nephew and Stephanie and family at this sad time on losing there little boy Ciaran who was only 8 years old. May god be with yous at this tragic time love yous both xxx.”
 
Pals of Ciaran’s dad, Ryan Williamson, flooded the website with emotional tributes to the lad.
Gaz Williamson wrote: “Ryan I’m so sorry. I’m thinking of you cuz xxx.”
Robert Thomson: “Ryan sorry to hear about the wee man ,your wee bhoy was taking far too early and nothing anybody can say will change it but he will always be with you in your memory’s .just try keep your chin up and your family round you and you know where I am anytime.”

Sean Lavery posted: “Ryan I can’t even begin to imagine how you an your family are feeling at this sad time,whenever I met Ciaran he was such a intelligent, funny wee guy with a great smile to brighten a room up, sadly now when you look up to the sky an see the brightest star he will be watching over u you mate, me and Annette will always be there for you x.“
Flowers were tied to the gates of the cemetery with a note reading: “Taken too soon. Heaven has gained a special angel. Love, the Grainger family.”
Nearby on Mossview Quadrant, close to where Ciaran lived, pal Thomas tied a Celtic FC shirt to railings with “gone but not forgotten pal” drawn onto it.
A note in flowers left read: “I miss you so much. I’ll never forget you.”
Another read: “To Stephanie, Thomas and kids, thinking of you all at this sad time. Love Allana and boys.”
In a brief statement, released through the police, Ciaran’s family added: “We would like to take this opportunity to inform you that our son Ciaran James Williamson sadly passed away in a tragic accident at Craigton Crematorium.
“We would respectfully ask that you respect our privacy at this distressing time.”
Detective Inspector Tom McKean of Police Scotland said: “This is such a tragic set of circumstances and our thoughts are with Ciaran’s family.
“Enquiries are ongoing however the incident is not being treated as suspicious and a full report will be submitted to the Procurator Fiscal.”
A Police Scotland spokesman added: “Around 7.25pm on Tuesday May 26, police and emergency services responded to reports of three boys having been injured within Craigton Cemetery in Cardonald.
“An eight-year-old boy was taken to Yorkhill where doctors pronounced him dead. A ten-year-old boy was also taken to Yorkhill where hospital staff described his condition as stable.
“Another ten-year-old boy was taken to South Glasgow University Hospital and has since been discharged.
“Inquiries are continuing to determine the full circumstances surrounding the incident however officers are not treating it as suspicious.
“A report will be submitted to the procurator fiscal.”
A spokeswoman for Glasgow City Council said: “This is a tragic incident and our hearts go out to the child’s family and friends. We will be assisting Police Scotland with their investigation.”

