 COUNCIL chiefs ordered the immediate inspection of 30,000 graves after tragic Ciaran Williamson was crushed to death by a falling tombstone. 
And any unsafe memorial stones will be laid flat if they are found to be unsafe.
 The eight-year-old died and his two 10-year-old pals were left in hospital after the 6ft stone crashed down on top of them in Craigton Cemetery in Glasgow on Tuesday night. 
Now, a major inspection of all headstones within the site has been completed and any unsafe stones laid flat.
It comes as concerns were raised by the local community over the safety of the crumbing site.
Local authorities across Scotland have already taken action over unsafe tombstones, with Edinburgh City Council leaving whole graveyards with very few upright memorials.
 

Meanwhile, dozens more tributes to Celtic fan Ciaran appeared around the area where he lived with his mum Stephanie and stepdad Thomas yesterday.
A touching note from Ciaran’s auntie Cody read: “My baby boy. Can’t believe you’re really gone.
“Only aunties treat you like a mother, keep secrets like a sister, be a true friend and kick your butt when needed.
“My partner in crime.”
The schoolboy’s gran left a message for her “beautiful, wee, handsome grandson”, saying, “You will never be out of my thoughts and heart” and his auntie Pauline wrote a note to addressed to her “wee angel”.
 
It read: “Words could never explain how sad and devastated we are. Sleep tight and be at rest.”
 Thomas McManus, 10, told the Record how he ran for help after Ciaran was knocked out by the falling stone at around 7.30pm . 
He was pronounced dead after being taken to Yorkhill Children’s Hospital by paramedics.

Thomas was treated in hospital after being hit on the back by the stone and his friend Aiden is still undergoing treatment for a serious wound to his foot.
Former Mosspark community council chairman David Cameron yesterday said he had been urging the local authority to make the graveyard safe and flatten dangerous stones for 17-years.
He said: “We’re talking about children’s lives here but it was an accident that was going to happen.”
A Glasgow City Council spokeswoman said the council was confident it had identified any other safety issues within the cemetery during inspections throughout Wednesday.
She said: “We did the whole site. All of them were checked. Any that were found to be unsafe were laid flat.”

