TOWARDS the end of last week the UK Government announced their bizarre plans for who can and cannot vote in the in/out EU referendum – perversely most EU citizens living in the UK will not be able to vote.
As Minister for Europe and International Development I regularly meet with members of various European communities who have chosen to make Scotland their home, European business people who employ many local people and students who contribute to our academic sector.
Some will return to their home countries, others will continue to travel the world, however the vast majority have chosen to make Scotland their home permanently.
Here in Glasgow and across the UK we have a diverse European community. Following the horrific attacks on the Charlie Hebdo headquarters in Paris earlier this year, I joined many members of the French community and citizens of countries across the world as we marched through Buchanan Street in solidarity with our European friends in Paris.
German, Spanish and Italian people who came to live here many decades ago are now members of our extended families. They have positively contributed, academically, socially and economically, through taxes and their business acumen, to making Scotland the country it is today.
Yet the Tories have decided that these people – many of whom are our teachers, our doctors, our local business owners - will not be allowed to vote in this incredibly important referendum on Scotland and the UK’s future in Europe. One of our Members of the Scottish Parliament, Christian Allard was elected by his constituents in the north-east of Scotland, represents them on a daily basis, and has participated in numerous debates on Europe and all the issues surrounding it. However, because he is French, he will be excluded from the EU referendum vote, due to this utterly inexplicable decision.
The UK Government’s decision simply does not make sense – why have most EU citizens been excluded, while those from certain European countries such as Malta and Cyprus can vote? Their decision is wholly inconsistent. It is not the case that they are excluding all foreign citizens from this vote, only some.
Why can citizens of Gibraltar vote but not those of Spain? Why those from Ireland and Commonwealth countries but not those from Poland, Luxembourg or Denmark? Why can UK ex-pats who have lived abroad for up to 15 years without paying a penny in tax in the UK vote in this referendum while EU citizens who have raised families and run businesses in the UK for even longer cannot? To me it seems simply illogical and discriminatory.
Last year we had a historic referendum on the future of Scotland and its place within the United Kingdom. Rather than excluding people based on the colour of the passport they hold, we gave every European Union and Commonwealth citizen living in Scotland the right to vote in that referendum. 
We even extended the franchise to 16 and 17 year olds, because we believed in a vote this important, the broadest diversity of voices must be heard. In fact, we would prefer that this applied to all future elections and referenda.
The language which has been used by senior Conservatives in this debate is pandering to a xenophobic agenda. Last week the former Tory Defence Secretary Dr Liam Fox welcomed the government’s proposed franchise – saying allowing EU citizens to vote would lead to “an unacceptable dilution of the voice of the British people”. This is something I would expect to read on the back of a BNP leaflet – not coming from a former senior government minister.
I will be raising this issue with the UK government as a matter of urgency, to urge them to reverse this decision and to make the EU referendum vote as representative as possible.
***
On a sombre note, my sincerest condolences go to the friends and family of Ciaran Williamson, the young boy so tragically killed in a horrible accident in Craigton. I cannot imagine what those who were closest to Ciaran are going through, but they must be anxious to know the exact circumstances of what happened.
It is vital that the family and the local community are given all the support and reassurances they need at this difficult time, and that the police are given time and space to conclude their investigations.
