THE assassination of Kevin “Gerbil” Carroll in a supermarket car park was an affront to human decency which went unpunished for far too long.
Hitman William Paterson deserves every one of his 22 years in jail for a crime that quite rightly sickened Scotland to its core.
The thug thought nothing for the lives of the hundreds of people, including babies and children, who could have been caught in the crossfire as he blasted Carroll in broad daylight.
It is a great credit to police and prosecutors that they refused to allow this murder to join the long list of gang-related violent crime which goes unsolved every year.
 

It took five years to bring him to book but the sentence handed down sends a message that Scotland will not tolerate savagery like this.
For too long there has been a macho acceptance of Glasgow’s “no mean city” image where the law of the jungle supersedes the law of the land and gang masters ply their trade with scant regard for the lives they ruin.
The truth is there’s nothing glamorous about Glasgow’s seedy gangland underbelly.
It’s a septic, paranoid world where cheap profits are made peddling death, misery and drugs and where appalling acts of violence are committed without a second thought.
 

Carroll was a menace to his own safety and to others. His was a life wasted. But he was also a son and a father and didn’t deserve to die the way he did. No one does.
More to the point, people should be able to go shopping without fear of witnessing the disgusting sight of a man being shot 13 times at close range by masked gunmen. It is a miracle that no one else was hurt that day.
Paterson – a coward who lied that he was with his girlfriend when the shooting happened – fled to Spain to avoid justice, but the law tracked him down in the end.
Now let’s hope that one day justice catches up with whoever ordered him to carry out the murder.
 

CAN it really be 21 years since Marti Pellow and Wet Wet Wet enjoyed their biggest hit with Love is all Around?
Marti had planned to only release The Troggs cover as a B-side until a label boss from Holland suggested it would do well.
After 15 weeks at No1, Love is all Around was withdrawn from sale because Marti feared over-exposure. Now he can look back at the song with fondness.
And the best of thing of all? The working-class lad from Clydebank remains true to his roots … humble, modest and likeable.
Here’s to the next three decades, Marti.
 

Presiding Officer Tricia Marwick has done a sterling job keeping order at Holyrood.
Politics these days is so often dominated by the same middle-class, male voices.
So it’s been a breath of fresh air to have a miner’s daughter from Fife in the chair.
We wish her well for the rest of this Parliament – and beyond.

