PAOLO Nutini’s Album Caustic Love has been nominated by the public for a Scottish Album of the Year (SAY) Award.
The shortlist for the prestigious ceremony was announced this evening at a stylish event in Glasgow’s CCA, hosted by BBC Scotland presenter Janice Forsyth.
Produced by The Scottish Music Industry Association (SMIA), and now in its fourth year, The SAY Award has grown to become one of the most prestigious music prizes in Scotland and competition for the shortlist slots has been fierce.
 

Paolo, who was nominated after a 72 hour public vote which started on Monday (25 May), will join Belle and Sebastian, Errors, Happy Meals, Honeyblood, Slam and others on the shortlist of ten.
Among the final 10 are the Amazing Snakeheads, darlings of the NME who were tipped for greatness but split earlier this year.
Each shortlisted album wins the artist behind it a &pound;1,000 prize and a one of a kind quilt from Glasgow School of Art graduate Vanessa Hindshaw.
 
Stewart Henderson, chair of the SMIA, said: “Reducing The SAY Award longlist to a shortlist of 10 is never an easy task but by all accounts this year’s process has been particularly painful. We can only wish the remaining titles the very best of luck and congratulate them on emerging from such an extraordinary crop of albums.”
Previous winners of The SAY Award include Bill Wells &amp; Aidan Moffat (2012), RM Hubbert (2013) and Young Fathers (2014) – who are also longlisted again this year for their album DEAD.
 

This year’s winner of The Scottish Album of the Year Award will be unveiled on June 17 at a ceremony in the O2 ABC Glasgow.
Hosted by Vic Galloway and Janice Forsyth, the ceremony will be attended by the best of Scotland’s musical and creative talent.


Belle and Sebastian - Girls In Peacetime Want To Dance
  
Errors - Lease of Life
  
Happy Meals - Ap&egrave;ro
  


 

 
Honeyblood - Honeyblood
  
 

 
Kathryn Joseph - Bones You Have Thrown Me And Blood I’ve Spilled
  
 

 
Paolo Nutini - Caustic Love (Winner of the Public Vote)
  
 

 
PAWS - Youth Culture Forever
  
 
 

 
Slam - Reverse Proceed
  
 

 
The Amazing Snakeheads - Amphetamine Ballads
(below track not on album)
  
 

 
Young Fathers - DEAD
  

