CHARLIE Flynn made it three wins from three on Friday night as he came through against Qasim Hussain.
‘The Mailman’ claimed all four rounds on the referee’s scorecard, although right from the opening seconds a knockout never looked likely with Hussain doing as much as he could to run away from the Newarthill man.
Hussain has suffered just one knockout in an astonishing tally of 31 professional defeats, and it’s easy to see why as time and again Flynn threw everything he had at him to no avail.
But despite his obvious frustration at the way the fight panned out, Flynn was just delighted to add another victory to his professional record.
He said:“I’m happy to get through it. I’ve never seen someone take as many body shots in my life.
“I was throwing my hardest shots and they were landing sweetly, but he took every single one of them.
“Once I’d hit him on the body a few times he didn’t want to know.
“That doesn’t look good for me as I was throwing loads of shots that didn’t seem to have much of an impact.
“But it was still a decent performance, although it would have been even better had it been a better opponent.”
The packed crowd at Glasgow’s Thistle Hotel really got behind Flynn throughout the fight, and as always, he was extremely grateful for their support.
He said: “It was great, and everyone went off their dinger when I came in.
“It was great that they all started chanting too, although it was annoying as the other boy just covered up and didn’t want to fight.”
But the life of a professional boxer never stands still – and Flynn’s attention is already on his next outing at the Manchester Arena on July 18 as part of a monumental night of boxing.
‘The Mailman’ will be on the undercard for both Scott Quigg and Anthony Crolla’s World Title fights as well as another outing for major Heavyweight prospect Anthony Joshua.
It’s a major show of confidence in Flynn from promoter Eddie Hearn to have him on such an impressive bill, and Flynn admitted he can’t wait to step into the ring.
He said:“There’s two World Title fights and two British Title fights, so to be on the undercard is a massive, massive thing for me.
“To get on shows as big as that in what will be my fourth fight is crazy.
“So I’m really looking forward to it, but I have a big training camp ahead of me now.
“I’ll take a week off, and then I’ll get back into it.”
