THOUSANDS of Glasgow’s most vulnerable and needy children are not getting the support required by law, according to new figures.
Youngsters who are “looked after” - whether at home or in care - must be assumed to have additional support needs through education or other agencies. And legislation requires councils to assess them for a co-ordinated support plan (CSP), a multi-agency approach to ensure children can achieve their true potential.
But in Glasgow, with 3,477 children looked after in 2014, just 48 were assessed for a CSP and 38 actually given one.
Neighbouring East Renfrewshire Council had 150 children, all were assessed and one in 10 had a CSP worked out. And Renfrewshire assessed 100 per cent of 697 children, though only 20 received a CSP. East Dunbartonshire had 111 looked after children, all were assessed for a CSP and 11.4 per cent were assigned one.
Govan Law Centre, who compiled the figures obtained through Freedom of Information requests, said that while the national picture has improved slightly in the past two years, Glasgow had slipped backwards.
Iain Nisbet, head of education law at the centre, said: “This is a group of children with some of the worst educational outcomes. We are told this is a priority for local authorities and the Scottish Government and it’s the law. That law is simply not being applied.
“Glasgow City Council have the most looked after children and 48 were assess, which is pitiful.”
Nationally, just 2.9 per cent of looked after children were given a CSP - 368 youngsters of 14,317. Mr Nisbet said they would expect a minimum to be closer to 20 per cent, ten times the number.
The Education (Additional Support for Learning) (Scotland) Act 2004 had extra provisions added five years ago after a push by the Govan Law Centre and other children’s charities. The legislation now presumes that all looked after children have additional support needs, unless proven otherwise.
While all might not need a CSP, thousands of children, often referred by the Children’s Panel system, should be assessed to get the support required by law. Parents have the right to appeal if they don’t feel support is in place, and councils should be writing to families after being assessed for a CSP. But of 6,374 assessed in Scotland, there was not one appeal.
Mr Nisbet says that indicates councils are not even bothering to do assessments.
He said: “They are not even considering that multi-agency approach. The level of understanding and awareness and interest in additional support needs from social work professionals is probably fairly limited, and I think most think this is being superseded by Girfec [Getting it right for every child] and named person [legislation], whereas this runs in parallel. 
“There is no justification for social work staff ignoring additional support needs. 
“I don’t think it’s necessarily a funding issue. There’s an element of staff training. These are children for whom people are meeting together on a multi-agency basis in any event, so it’s making sure these issues are being considering and legal procedures being followed.”
Glasgow City Council has been asked to comment.
