A man has been jailed for life for murdering another man in his Glasgow home in a revenge attack.
John Ramsay, 50, stabbed 39-year-old Alan Whitelaw eight times in the neck and arm at the victim's flat in Maryhill on 1 July 2014.
He claimed the killing was accidental after Mr Whitelaw attacked him, but a jury convicted him of murder.
At the High Court in Edinburgh, Ramsay was told he must serve at least 18 years before being eligible for parole.
Jailing him, judge Lord Kinclaven told Ramsay: &quot;I have received victim impact statements from members of Mr Whitelaw's family.
&quot;It is clear that they have been left devastated by what has happened.&quot;
He added: &quot;There is nothing this court can do to compensate them for their loss. You have been convicted of an appalling crime and the sentence is set by law at life.&quot;
Ramsay's earlier trial at the High Court in Glasgow heard that he and Mr Whitelaw had only met three times. 
On the day of the murder, Mr Whitelaw had invited Ramsay to his home for a drink. 
After eating a takeaway curry together, the two men rowed and Mr Whitelaw attacked Ramsay, leaving him battered and bruised. 
Ramsay was dragged away by neighbour who heard the fight. As he left he shouted threats at Mr Whitelaw. 
Some hours later, armed with two knives, he went back to Mr Whitelaw's home in Glenfinnan Road and killed him. 
Mr Whitelaw's body was discovered by his neighbour, 49-year-old Kevin Lundie. 
He went into the flat after seeing blood in the hallway. 
He told the court: &quot;It was pitch dark inside the flat. The only thing I could see in the living room was the television, but I could make out the silhouette of his body. I ran out the living room and phoned the emergency services.&quot; 
In evidence Ramsay claimed he had returned to Mr Whitelaw's home because he had left his keys there. 
He told the jury that Mr Whitelaw came at him with two knives and pinned him to the floor and he had to defend himself. 
Ramsay was asked by defence QC Donald Findlay: &quot;Did you mean to kill Mr Whitelaw?&quot; and replied: &quot;No I was trying not to hurt him. I just wanted to get him away from me.&quot; 
Following his conviction, it emerged that Ramsay had a number of previous convictions, including two for assault and robbery.
