THE audacious execution of Kevin Carroll was arguably the most public gangland hit ever carried out in Glasgow.
Gerbil knew people wanted him dead and this was later confirmed when a list of 99 potential suspects was read out in court during the Monaghan trial.
But as the Daniel clan enforcer sat unarmed in the back of a Audi A3 outside Asda on January 13, 2010 he could have been forgiven for thinking he was safe.
That illusion was shattered at 1.23pm when a Volkswagen Golf screeched to a halt in the busy car park and blocked in the Audi.
Gerbil’s friends, driver John Bonner and Stephen McLaggan, scrambled out the car but Carroll could not escape the assassins.
The drug lord, who had a car manual for protection, was shot 13 times and died instantly from bullet wounds to his head and chest.
 

CCTV recorded the movements of the Golf and established the shooting lasted just 25 seconds.
But for those who witnessed it in real time the chilling memories will never fade.
Emma Busby was leaving the 24-hour store when she saw a car screech to a halt. She immediately feared for her life.
Emma, 35, said: “I saw two guys jumping out of the car and I saw a gun so that’s when I started to back up with my trolley.
“I heard the shots and that’s when I turned and went back into the shop. I remember someone jumping out of the passenger side, I just remember seeing a gun.”
 

Asked to describe the weapon, Emma said: “Just silver, I remember thinking it was like a Clint Eastwood western style gun with a rolling barrel.
She told the jury she feared what would happen next.
Emma said: “I thought he was going to turn it on everyone. I didn’t equate it with the other car.”
She thought eight to 10 shots were fired and admitted the whole experience left her “traumatised”.
During the Monaghan trial in 2012 Emma said: “I thought it was just someone shooting at everyone.
 

“I thought it was like another Dunblane massacre. I kept hearing the sound of a baby crying.”
Asda duty manager Steven McKenna, 49, witnessed the murder from his office window, an hour after he came on duty.
He said: “The parked car had two males moving away at pace, they were running. Two males from the other car were firing.”
He activated the store’s panic alarm but it was too late.
McKenna said: “The passenger window of the car was almost obliterated. There was an adult male lying on the back seat. There was nothing I could do for him.”
The court heard the 999 call made by McKenna.
 

Describing the emergency he said: “Shots fired in our car park. I need an ambulance.”
McKenna then asks Bonner and McLaggan who the victim is.
A voice replies: “Kevin the Gerbil, Kevin Carroll.”
McKenna is then sworn at as he asks for a date of birth.
Asked to do so again by the operator, he replies: “I’m not going to have a conversation with them.”
Cross-examined about his scientifically impossible evidence that both gunmen were on the same side of the car, McKenna said: “I can only tell you what I saw. At the time I had a 75,000 square foot retail unit in chaos.”
 

Anne McIntosh was putting shopping in her car, 10 spaces away from the Audi, when she heard the Golf brake sharply.
McIntosh, 46, said: “I happened to look up and as the car stopped, masked gunmen came out with their pistols held in front of them, walked towards a car and I just couldn’t believe what I was seeing.
“I just started wondering what on earth is going on.
“Not long after the people got out of the car there was what I assume was gun fire.
She crouched down next to her car until the shooting stopped.
McIntosh said she saw one person with a gun but was aware of a second. During the original trial she said it felt as if the gunshots went on for a long time.
And when it stopped she became aware of the Golf driving in her direction.
McIntosh said: “I wondered if they were coming for me.
 

“I saw one of the gunmen get in the car a few metres from me.
“He looked as if he was about to take his mask off, he had a thumb under the bottom of the mask.
“I didn’t want to be seen and I didn’t want to see him, so I moved.”
During the Monaghan trial three years ago supermarket worker Alexander McBride said the shooting looked like a planned operation.
And he described the gunmen as “gallus and confident”.
Despite the horror unfolding in front of him, McBride, 54, said he didn’t feel in danger.
Giving evidence in 2012, he said: “It happened so quickly.
 

“I was just dumbfounded standing looking at it as if it wasn’t happening. It was surreal.
“A few women were screaming but I was just standing there.
“It looked as if it was totally planned. They had no interest in harming anyone else.”
 John Aitchison said at  Monaghan’s trial that there were women and children around when he heard what he thought were party poppers going off. 
The community club volunteer said: “I though there was a film crew and they were filming, but I realised something serious had happened when security guards from Asda told people to keep away from the car.
“The irony is my wife and I usually go to Tesco but I was told Asda had a wee drinks offer on.
“I wish I hadn’t gone there.”

