Venue: Kingspan Stadium, Belfast Date: Saturday 30 May Kick-off: 18:30 BST
Coverage: Live on BBC Two Scotland, Radio Scotland and BBC Sport website
 Captains Al Kellock and Peter O'Mahony drop out their respective starting line-ups for Saturday's Pro12 final between Glasgow Warriors and Munster. 
 Kellock is on the Glasgow bench, while DTH van der Merwe's winning try against Ulster earns the winger a start ahead of Niko Matawalu and Rob Harley and Dougie Hall return to the pack. 
 O'Mahony and scrum-half Conor Murray miss out for Munster through injury. 
 But Simon Zebo has been passed fit to play in Belfast following concussion. 
 And former South Africa prop BJ Botha returns to make his 100th appearance for the Irish side. 
 The final, being played at a neutral venue for the first time, features the sides who finished first and second - and equal on points - in the Pro12 table after both won their home semi-finals. 
 Glasgow, who finished top, won the first meeting of the season against Muster, 21-18 at Scotstoun in December. 
 But Munster, who pipped Leinster to win the old Magners League in 2011, avenged that defeat by the Scots on their home ground, by 22-10, in February. 
 Warriors lost to Leinster in their first-ever Pro12 final last season and head coach Gregor Townsend said: &quot;It's been an enjoyable week preparing for another final and it's essential we use the experience of last season to put in a performance of which we can all be proud. 
 &quot;The way the team came back to win last week against Ulster underlined the work ethic and belief the players have in each other and we expect to see more of that on display in Belfast. 
 &quot;Munster are a quality side who have been at the top end of the Pro12 table all season. 
 &quot;They play a direct brand of rugby, balanced with dangerous attackers in their backline, so we'll have to give our best defensive effort of the season.&quot; 
 Townsend has made six changes, with Fijian second-row Leone Nakarawa replacing Kellock, who will have to make his final appearance before retiring from the bench. 
 Harley returns to the starting XV for the first time since the defeat by Ospreys at the beginning of May and is joined in the back-row by Ryan Wilson, with Chris Fusaro and Adam Ash dropping to the bench. 
 Josh Strauss switches to number eight and takes over as captain. 
 Dougie Hall, who is also retiring, replaces Fraser Brown at hooker and is joined in the front row by Gordon Reid in place of the injured Ryan Grant. 
 The only change in the backs is the promotion from the bench of Canada winger Van der Merwe, who will switch to Scarlets in the summer. 
 Munster head coach Anthony Foley has made three changes from the side that defeated Ospreys. 
 Having failed a fitness test on an injured hip, Peter O'Mahony drops out, so Billy Holland starts in the second row and Donnacha Ryan switches to number six, while Denis Hurley takes over as captain. 
 Duncan Williams comes in for Murray, who visited a specialist on Thursday and has been ruled out for six weeks with a knee-ligament injury. 
 Botha comes into the front row in place of Stephen Archer. 
 British and Irish Lions lock Paul O'Connell will start in what will almost certainly be his final game for Munster, with the 35-year-old Ireland international being linked with a move to Toulon. 
 Back-row James Cronin and scrum-half Cathal Sheridan return from injury to make the bench. 
  Glasgow Warriors:  Stuart Hogg, Tommy Seymour, Richie Vernon, Peter Horne, DTH van der Merwe, Finn Russell, Henry Pyrgos, Gordon Reid, Dougie Hall, Rossouw de Klerk, Leone Nakarawa, Jonny Gray, Rob Harley, Ryan Wilson, Josh Strauss (captain).  Replacements:  Fraser Brown, Jerry Yanuyanutawa, Jon Welsh, Al Kellock, Chris Fusaro, Niko Matawalu, Duncan Weir, Sean Lamont. 
  Munster:  Felix Jones; Keith Earls, Andrew Smith, Denis Hurley (captain), Simon Zebo; Ian Keatley, Duncan Williams; Dave Kilcoyne, Eusebio Guinazu, BJ Botha; Billy Holland, Paul O'Connell; Donnacha Ryan, Paddy Butler, CJ Stander.  Replacements:  Duncan Casey, James Cronin, Stephen Archer, Sean Dougall, Jack O'Donoghue, Cathal Sheridan, JJ Hanrahan, Ronan O'Mahony. 
