PERHAPS he should be re-named Sam Masters of the Universe!
Edinburgh Monarchs No.1 Masters has shown in the last week he can KO rivals at all levels of the sport in some style.
It started with a ruck in Heat 1 of last Friday's home meeting with Sheffield guest Lasse Bjerre – after the Dane had ruthlessly taken out Masters during the race.
The capital side ace showed his He-Man side during a pits ruck as he made his feelings felt about the on-track manoeuvre by Bjerre.
Masters then breezed through his GP qualifier in Abensberg, Germany on Sunday with 12 points and is now just 10 races from a place on speedway's top table in the Grand Prix series.
Then on Wednesday night he made his debut for Elite League club Leicester and started with an impressive win over ex-world champ Chris Holder at Poole – although machinery problems hampered his further scoring.
Masters also picked paid 12 points guesting for King's Lynn in their home win over Poole on Thursday night.
Masters, who lines up for the Monarchs at Armadale tonight (Fri) at 7.30pm against Workington, is delighted with his progress. He told Record Sport: “Sounds easy when you say I'm just 10 rides from the Grand Prix!
“Obviously I'm stoked to be through and now I've got two rounds to go at Terenzano and Riga. It was slick and dry in Abensberg which is not my usual sort of track but I made some starts and I'm really pleased how it went.
“I want to take my speedway to the next level and that was the perfect way to start.
“I've had a few machinery problems. At Edinburgh I've had trouble with clutch plates which has affected my scoring and although I was happy to get off to a good start for Leicester at Poole, again I had bike problems.
“Once I get those niggly things sorted then I hope to really get back on form. It's been a good start to the season going to No.1 in the team and Edinburgh have started well – we just need to stay consistent.”
 Masters, who also launched a new range of merchandise at sammastersracing.com this week, is vying for top dog at Armadale with Great Britain star Craig Cook – and his team-mate paid tribute to him. 
Cook said: “Sam has started the season in awesome form and he deserves to have gone to No.1 in the team. I've been struggling by my standards but I think I've turned a corner now. Both my teams Edinburgh and Belle Vue are going well.”
Monarchs captain Cook also reckons it's pure “winning mentality” that led to Masters' altercation with Bjerre at Armadale last week.
He added: “It's a high pressure sport when you are racing like we are. I didn't see the incident but I gather Bjerre rode him really hard and Sam lost it after the race.
“But that underlines Sam's sheer determination to win every race. To be honest that's what Edinburgh is all about, everyone has a winning mentality throughout the club.
“The one thing I hate is losing. Winning is absolutely everything to me.”
Tonight at Armadale Workington are missing Kyle Howarth, so impressive for Swindon on Sky Sports on Tuesday night, as he's on World Under-21 duty. But former Monarch Matty Wethers is in the Comets line-up.
Glasgow face two away meetings next week at Sheffield and Plymouth before their next home meeting on June 7 against Scunthorpe.
