THE bloody feud that was to culminate in the daylight execution of Kevin Gerbil Carroll can be traced back to the school playground.
His rivalry with the Lyons clan stretched all the way back to his schooldays when he was bullied by Steven Lyons and his brother Edward Jnr.
But during this time he also forged friendships with crime boss Jamie Daniel’s sons Robert Daniel and Francis “Fraggle” Green, who became his closest associate.
Born in Glasgow’s Stobhill Hospital on August 24, 1980, only Carroll’s mother Elizabeth was named on his birth certificate.
Gerbil and his older brother David, 34, were initially brought up in Drumchapel but the family moved to the tough Milton estate in the north of the city when Carroll was 10.
The nickname that would become notorious was coined by a cousin after Kevin the Gerbil, a character from the TV puppet series Roland Rat.
By the time he was in his teens Carroll was on the law enforcement radar and at 19 he was jailed for three months for car theft.
But by his mid 20s his focus had switched to a much more lucrative trade.
A police source said: “By the age of 24, he was a significant criminal player on the north side of Glasgow.
“We had to deploy a lot of resources in a bid to manage him. This included armed operations based on the intelligence we were getting.”
By the time of his death just a few years later Carroll had reached the summit of the city’s underworld as a feared enforcer for the Daniel family.
The last man to do business with Gerbil summed up the gangster’s fearsome reputation.
During the Monaghan trial drug dealer Steven Glen, who Carroll had gone to meet on the day he was shot, told the jury: “Nobody in the whole of Glasgow would f*** with him.”
Gerbil posed a major headache for police and the elite Scottish Crime &amp; Drug Enforcement Agency.
The source added: “Carroll was a complete rocket.
“In the whole war between the Lyons and Daniel clans he was the most unpredictable element.
“He heightened tensions because of the way he conducted himself and he was the one who could tip the whole thing into chaos.
“There is no question that he was one of Scotland’s most dangerous criminals and many people breathed a sigh of relief when he was killed.”
 

Gerbil was at the very epicentre of the bloody feud with the rival Lyons gang which plagued north Glasgow for more than a decade.
He had been shot twice before and knew there were people who wanted him dead.
The hit squad struck when Gerbil, who was described in court as “paranoid” and “edgy”, let his guard down.
Our source said: “Gerbil was meticulous in his business dealings and he planned every operation with military precision.
“The key to taking him out was the element of surprise.
“The fact he turned up at the supermarket unarmed and without his bullet-proof vest proves he did not expect any trouble.”
Former policeman George Gallagher confirmed Gerbil had been the subject of reconnaissance during his time with the drugs and surveillance unit.
During the Monaghan trial the retired officer was asked about Carroll’s no-nonsense reputation.
Gallagher said: “He was a nutcase, basically.
“I would imagine his fellow drug dealers would not have been happy to deal with him.
“He was not a nice person.”
Drug dealer Glen told the 2012 trial Gerbil was “a maniac” who wanted a bigger share of the lucrative drugs trade.
Glen, who was recruited by Gerbil minutes before his execution and said he was making &pound;250,000 a year dealing cocaine, was offered &pound;10,000 a month by Carroll to work for him.
Under cross-examination by Derek Ogg QC, for Monaghan, he confirmed he had heard stories about Carroll torturing, maiming and disfiguring people.
He was then asked if he had heard of Carroll digging the tongues out of people’s mouths but Glen said: “I’ve never heard that.”
Ogg said: “Was the Gerbil out of control?”
Glen replied: “He was a maniac.”
Gerbil was behind a series of so-called alien abductions across central Scotland.
 

He used a blowtorch and boiling water to torture victims before stealing drugs, money and weapons from them.
They became knows as alien abduction gang because their traumatised victims told police they couldn’t remember anything about their ordeal.
Victims, often linked to rival gangs, were snatched from their homes at gunpoint by the mob, posing as armed police.
They then had hoods placed over their heads before being taken to safe houses or disused buildings where they suffered horrific physical and mental torture.
Power tools were used in other attacks.
One dealer was on a drugs buy when the mob stole four kilos of coke worth up to &pound;50,000 with no violence, just the words: “You’re taxed, you bam.”
In another attack a gang member posed as a postman to get inside a house before another three henchmen burst in.
The mob threw a kettle of boiling water over the victim.
And a dealer in Balornock, Glasgow, was robbed of &pound;30,000.
He was kept in a cupboard for two days and threatened with syringes.
Carroll’s most serious brush with the law came in 2004 when he was charged with attempted murder.
He was accused of shooting John Madden, a pal of Eddie Lyons Snr, with an AK47 but the case later collapsed.
Carroll’s professional and personal lives were interlinked.
His partner, Kelly Green, is the daughter of mob boss Jamie Daniel and the sister of Fraggle, his closest associate.
 

Gerbil and beauty therapist Kelly, 35, lived in Lennoxtown and had two children together.
He also became a stepdad to her son Reece, 15, from a previous relationship.
On the birth certificates of Konnor, 11, and six-year-old Boe, Carroll is described as a “car valet”.
Despite his notoriety Kelly described Carroll as a “loving partner and a fantastic father”.
She added: “I got a message from him before it happened.
“It just said ‘I love you’ then I got a phone call from one of my family members saying Kevin had been shot.”
The couple’s &pound;217,000 villa in Lennoxtown, Dunbartonshire, was later seized under the Proceeds of Crime Act.
Kelly and her children moved out of the property after the Court of Session ruled Carroll had obtained it “through his involvement in organised crime, violence, drug dealing and his obtaining of mortgages by fraud”.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

