Tata Steel workers across the UK have voted by almost 9-1 to go on strike in a row over pensions, which would be the first national strike in the steel industry in 30 years.
The Community union, the biggest in Tata, announced its result of a ballot on industrial action on Friday.
The dispute is over proposed changes to pensions which could see employees retiring at 65 instead of 60.
GMB and Ucatt members also voted to strike. Unite members are still voting.
Unite is balloting until next Friday.
The four unions represent 17,000 steel workers. 
Tata released an open letter to employees on Friday which said Tata's UK operations were losing money and the pension scheme had a shortfall of up to &pound;2bn.
Profits within the UK steel industry are being squeezed by cheap imports and weak demand. Its costs are also higher than elsewhere for both energy and labour. 
The company's parent, India's Tata Steel Ltd, reported an $889m (&pound;582m) quarterly loss this month, partly because of its UK business. 
The union has now informed Tata of the result and are hoping the strength of feeling will lead to the company changing its proposals on pensions.
Tata Steel has not yet commented on the move, although the letter said &quot;we have always said we are open to talks and further negotiations with the unions and that continues to be the case&quot;.
Roy Rickhuss, General Secretary of Community, said: &quot;We stand on the brink of the first national strike in the steel industry for over 30 years. 
&quot;This is not where we wanted to be but Tata now has an opportunity to end this dispute by removing the threat of scheme closure and discussing alternative measures.
&quot;Community's members at Tata Steel have now spoken loud and clear. Steelworkers are determined to stand up to Tata. 
&quot;We will begin to consult our members on the kind of action that they want to take.&quot;
Tata's sites include some of the biggest names in the UK industrial heritage.
In Wales, Tata has sites in Port Talbot, Llanwern in Newport, Shotton in Flintshire and Trostre, Carmarthenshire.
It also has a plant at Motherwell in Scotland, while in England there are plants at Corby, Scunthorpe, Redcar, Rotherham, Hartlepool, Walsall and Wednesbury.
