The Scottish football authorities should come up with tougher ways of dealing with sectarianism, according to a government-commissioned study.
The recommendation was one of a series made by the Advisory Group on Tackling Sectarianism.
Scottish clubs do not currently operate a policy of &quot;strict liability&quot;, which would see them held responsible for the behaviour of their fans.
The report challenged clubs to come up with an alternative.
And it said sanctions were &quot;urgently needed&quot;.
The final report follows a two year study by the advisory group, which saw it gather evidence, research and opinions from across wide sections of Scottish society.
The advisory group has now made a number of recommendations for churches, football clubs, media and government bodies.
But it highlighted football in particular as an area where action to tackle the issue was urgently required.
The report said: &quot;It is clear that a strategic and measured response to Scotland's remnants of sectarian attitudes and behaviour cannot succeed without squarely addressing the sectarian problems within and around football.&quot;
The group said it was &quot;struck by the reticence about leadership in addressing sectarianism from within Scottish football&quot;.
It said that during meetings with both the football authorities and Celtic and Rangers Football Clubs, it was suggested the system of &quot;strict liability&quot; for fans misbehaviour - which has been in place for a number of years in UEFA competitions - would &quot;be difficult, if not impossible, to introduce in Scotland&quot;.
However, the group said: &quot;We feel very strongly that sanctions are urgently needed and remain of the view that their introduction would not simply be a step towards tackling sectarianism, but also an important step towards clubs and their fans taking responsibility for their actions as we all have to do elsewhere in society.&quot;
Chairman of the advisory group, Dr Duncan Morrow said: &quot;Our work over the last two years has explored how sectarianism continues to manifest itself in Scotland today and how it still has the power to impact negatively on people's lives. 
&quot;But we have also seen a strong hunger for change across Scotland and a real desire to make sectarianism a thing of the past. 
&quot;I believe that this desire amounts to a real commitment from Scotland's communities and a challenge for leaders and institutions to set out a clear and inclusive vision that rejects avoidance and blame.&quot;
The Scottish government welcomed the recommendations made by the advisory group.
Community Safety and Legal Affairs Minister Paul Wheelhouse, said: &quot;This Scottish government will continue to do all it can to create a Scotland free from the scourge of sectarianism through a range of approaches.
&quot;As a result of the work undertaken by the independent advisory group and our many community based projects we now understand the nature and extent of sectarianism better than ever before.&quot;
He added: &quot;The report published today makes it clear that the approach we are taking is the right one.
&quot;It also confirms that each and every person in Scotland has a part to play in tackling sectarianism and I would urge everyone in Scotland to consider how they can help stamp out this issue.&quot;
