Celtic Renewables head of research took top honours at the inaugural Scottish Renewables Young Professionals Green Energy Awards.
Dr Eve Bird won the Achiever Award for her work in helping Celtic Renewables achieve a world first in producing viable biofuel from whisky industry waste products earlier this year.
Gail Watt and Rajini Sokhi, founders of the Women in Renewable Energy Scotland network, won the Campaigner Award while Sandya Abrar, a University of Edinburgh student who researched renewables’ potential in Africa, was named best Academic.
Jillian McKenna, director of marketing at Scottish Renewables, said: “We were overwhelmed by the number and quality of entries to the awards, which are in their first year.
“Our winners perfectly demonstrate the vital contribution young professionals are making to the success of renewable energy.
“People like Dr Eve Bird show how academia plays such a huge role in what is still a young industry, while talented lawyers and consultants like Stephanie Mill and Vijay Bhopal, who won the Professional and Entrepreneur Awards respectively, shows how crucial professional support is to ensuring the success of projects.”
A Judges Award, for which nominations were not accepted, was presented to Highland Council engineer Jackie Sayer for her pioneering work in biomass heating solutions.
McKenna said: “The judges felt that Jackie’s role in bringing new skills, jobs and affordable warmth to the Highlands by providing practical renewable heating alternatives to people living there was particularly worthy of merit.
“Often the success of a project depends on the commitment of just one person, and the judges wanted to recognise Jackie for, as her managers said, her ‘persistence, encouragement, pioneering approach and significant leadership’.”
Judging for the awards was carried out by a panel including EDF Energy Renewables, WWF Scotland, Highlands and Islands Enterprise and the University of Dundee.
The awards ceremony was held at the Glasgow Science Centre.

Full list of prize winners:
Achiever Award: Dr Eve Bird, Celtic Renewables
Academic Award: Sandya Abrar, University of Edinburgh
Campaigner Award: Gail Watt and Rajini Sokhi, Women in Renewable Energy Scotland
Entrepreneur Award: Vijay Bhopal, Scene Consulting
Innovator Award: Joe Berrisford, ScottishPower Renewbales
Leader Award: &Uacute;na Brosnan, Atkins Offshore Renewables
Pioneer Award: Peter Marshall, Muirhall Energy
Professional Award: Stephanie Mill, Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP
Judges Award: Jackie Sayer, Highland Council

 

