 TEN days after Gerbil’s murder and fearing the net was closing in, William Paterson boarded a flight to Malaga. 
It was January 23, 2010 – and he didn’t need to worry about booking a return.
Six months later, a warrant for his arrest was issued but the Crown Office requested a blackout over his identity.
That was finally lifted in February 2011 when Paterson – nicknamed Buff – was unmasked as the prime suspect and named as one of Crimestoppers’ 10 Most Wanted.
The move allowed the Record to publish his mugshot for the first time.
The Most Wanted list also included Derek “Deco” Ferguson, who is the prime suspect in the murder of Glasgow barman Tam Cameron.
Speaking at the time, Paul Stanfield, regional manager of the Serious Organised Crime Agency, said: “We have very strong links with the Spanish authorities and it is no longer a safe haven for criminals.”
He also delivered a message to the murder suspects, who were identified under Operation Captura.
Stanfield said: “We would ask that they give themselves up to the police.
“It can’t be a nice life looking over your shoulder thinking that the police are behind you.”
But despite the high-profile appeal, Paterson remained at large.
In October 2012, Detective Chief Superintendent John Cuddihy travelled to Madrid in a fresh bid to keep the case in the public eye.
At the time, detectives believed the same underworld associates were helping Paterson and Ferguson hide around the Costa del Sol resort of Calahonda.
 

Addressing reporters in the Spanish capital, Cuddiny said: “We want to make it clear to these men and the people harbouring them that we will continue to pursue them until they are arrested. We have met with a wall of silence so far but there is no hiding place for Paterson and Ferguson.
“We will be relentless.
“They may be using different names but their faces will give them away.”
When the hunt for Paterson – codenamed Operation Render – finally ended, it caught everyone by surprise.
After more than four years on the run, he finally decided to hand himself in at a police station in Madrid.
The reason behind his surrender remains unclear.
His girlfriend Sarah Maguire, 29, may have been a factor but the couple did not have any children together.
The murder trial heard that a bullet-proof vest was found under a bed in the Cumbernauld home Sarah shared with her dad Kevin, 70.
Police intelligence, believed to have come from disgraced cop Derek McLeod, was also discovered.
The trial heard Sarah was detained in October 2014 on suspicion of conspiring to murder Gerbil but she was later released without charge.
When Paterson finally went on trial at the High Court in Glasgow on May 12, he incriminated six other people, including Ross Monaghan.
He also lodged a special defence of alibi claiming he was at his girlfriend’s house in Cumbernauld on the day of the murder.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

