Cops who swooped on a Paisley flat had to force their way inside when they spotted a man throwing drugs out of a kitchen window in a bid to thwart their investigation.
The High Court in Glasgow heard of bizarre scenes at the tenement block at 35 Mannering Road, Foxbar, Paisley, as the drugs raid took place.
Police had received an anonymous tip-off to say cocaine was being sold from one of the flats.
When officers arrived at the scene, they saw Thomas Ewing run into flat 2/2 and then throw drugs from an open window at the rear of the property.
He refused to allow police inside, so they had to force entry to the flat, which was heavily fortified with a wooden structure inside the front door.
Once cops had searched the flat and another property on the floor below, they seized cocaine with a potential street value of &pound;120,000, as well as more than &pound;15,000 in cash.
In court, 23-year-old Kieran Gillies, of flat 2/2, admitted being concerned in the supply of cocaine from his Mannering Road home.
He was jailed for four-and-a-half years.
Co-accused Ewing, of Ferguslie Park Avenue, Paisley, pleaded guilty to obstructing officers in their search and throwing drugs from a window.
He was handed a one-year prison sentence.
The court heard the drugs raid took place on September 10, 2013.
A search of flat 2/2 found &pound;1,185 in cash and small amounts of cocaine in a bedroom drawer and in the front garden.
In flat 1/1, police discovered &pound;14,120 in cash and large quantities of both cocaine and the cutting agent benzocaine.
Advocate depute Jim Keegan, prosecuting, confirmed: “The two flats were searched and a number of recoveries made.
“Police were in receipt of information relating to drug dealing activities around 35 Mannering Road and that cocaine was being sold from Gillies’ flat.”
Gillies, who is unemployed, has four previous convictions and was on bail at the time of the offence.
His defence counsel, Louise Aroll, told the court her client was “immature” – but judge John Morris QC described him as “a daft boy.”
Ewing, who is also jobless, has 10 previous convictions, three of which are drug-related.
Tony Graham, defence counsel for 56-year-old Ewing, said: “My client is no stranger to the courts.”
