Occupancy and room yields at Aberdeen hotels “continued to fall” in March, according to new figures from accountants BDO.
Its latest monthly hotel trends survey, which measures the performance of hotels in key Scottish cities in the there and four-star category, shows occupancy in Aberdeen hotels was down 3.2 per cent year on year in March to 72.4 per cent.
Room yields, the industry measure of revenue, was also down 5.2 per cent on average to &pound;66.88.
By contrast, Glasgow had the highest occupancy in March increasing 8.6 per cent to 83.5 per cent and occupancy across Edinburgh hotels rose 6.8 per cent to 77.1 per cent and in Inverness occupancy rose rise 3.1 per cent to 75.2 per cent.
Room yields in Glasgow rose 11.5 per cent to &pound;51.51; Edinburgh yields rose 7.7 per cent to &pound;55.10 and average yields in Inverness were up 20.8 per cent to average &pound;43.29.
Alastair Rae, a partner in the property, leisure and hospitality sector at BDO, said Aberdeen hoteliers will likely see further declines “form some months to come”.
“It is clear that the reduced oil price is continuing to have an impact on the hospitality sector in Aberdeen,” he said.
“A decline in both occupancy and revenue in March reveals a slowing of demand from the business market and a comparable reduction in price occurs to slow the decline.
“How long this lasts in Aberdeen depends strongly on the view of the oil and gas sector about the likelihood of an increase in oil price and the continued viability of the sector in the city.
“I would expect year-on-year occupancy and revenue to continue to fall for some months to come so hoteliers need to act to ensure they are prepared for lower volumes and values over the next quarter or so.
“It may be worth noting that the revenue figures this year are comparable to numbers from March 2013 and still higher than those in March 2012.
“It is an indication of just how much these numbers have risen over the last couple of years.”
Rae added: “Aberdeen aside, the Scottish hotel figures point to a very good year with both leisure and business visitors returning to the market in considerable numbers.
“This can only be good for the sector with the one caution being the need for Aberdeen’s hoteliers to monitor the local market closely in the run-up to summer as it is clear the free spending days of recent years have been replaced by greater restraint and occupancy and revenue are likely to continue to decline.”
