It’s the morning after the night before, so to speak, and we are waking today to discover that we still have politicians and that they still have little idea of how to tackle the big issues.
You may have seen a Supreme Court ruling last week that requires whoever becomes the UK’s Environment Minister to deliver an action plan to meet EU air quality standards by the end of this year.
Currently, 15 UK cities, including Glasgow, fail to meet the minimum air quality standards.
A pressure group, ClientEarth, claimed the UK Government had acted illegally in failing to meet legal limits for air pollution.
They successfully argued for a ruling that upholds the public’s right to breathe clean air and proved the Government’s existing plans would not have met legal limits for the harmful pollutant nitrogen dioxide until after 2030 – almost a quarter of a century after the original deadline.
As expected, after the ruling, politicians started to blame each other for a lack of funding and a lack of powers to tackle such issues.
The truth is that there are no votes in sorting out air quality. However, there are business implications and it’s about time we started to find our own solutions to this problem rather than leaving it all to the politicians.
I fear a knee-jerk reaction from the UK Government who, forced to give a speedy response and action plan, will create bad initiatives.
In my opinion, it’s time for our business communities to come together to take control of this issue.
Government doesn’t make dirty vehicles take to the roads. We do. It’s our problem and we should sort it out.
Fortunately, Scotland is blessed with some of the best and most proactive business people and communities in the world. Business people, Glasgow needs you!
I have consequently launched a new initiative, called Fleet 2020, which helps businesses to reduce costs and emissions from transport.
If you want your business to take control of your transport emissions and costs then email me at john.curtis@thatcarexpert.com. Together, we can improve the air that we breathe.
