SCOTTISH Ambulance Service have confirmed that two people were trapped under a double decker bus following a horror accident in Glasgow city centre.
Emergency services were called to Queen Street at its junction with Argyle Street in Glasgow city centre at 2.35pm.
 
Emergency services are dealing with a road crash in Queen Street, Glasgow where two people have been struck by a bus.

Photographs posted on Twitter show firefighters and paramedics at the scene in a bid to rescue the elderly man and woman.
 

The pedestrian crossing is one of the busiest in Glasgow and the accident happened just yards from popular city stores such as Next and Debenhams.
The one way road, which leads to George Square, is mainly used by buses and taxis due to traffic and parking restrictions.
Scottish Fire and Rescue Service confirmed both casualties have been taken to the city's Royal Infirmary.
Their condition is unknown.
 

Four appliances from Calton and Cowcaddens community fire stations attended the incident along with a heavy rescue vehicle from Easterhouse.
 
The firefighters, who were working closely with paramedics and doctors, used airbags to release the pensioners from under the bus.
 
Police Scotland have confirmed Argyle Street between Jamaica Street/Union Street and Queen Street will &quot;remain closed for some time.&quot;
The Scottish Fire and Rescue Service said it had up to 25 firefighters on the scene, who used airbags to release two people from underneath the bus.
 
Argyle St likely to remain closed at Union St/Jamaica St for some time - diversion southbound to Clyde St. Delays likely, please be patient.

A spokesman said: &quot;Scottish Fire and Rescue Service crews attended an incident in Queen Street in Glasgow city centre following a call from ambulance control around 2.35pm.
&quot;Four appliances from Calton and Cowcaddens community fire stations attended the incident along with a heavy rescue vehicle from Easterhouse.
 

 
&quot;The firefighters, who were working closely with paramedics and doctors, used airbags to release two people from beneath a bus.
&quot;Both casualties were taken to Glasgow Royal Infirmary by ambulance.
&quot;A spokesman for the Scottish Ambulance Service said they had &quot;a number of ambulance crews&quot; on the scene as well as a special operations team and a trauma team.
 First Minister Nicola Sturgeon also tweeted her concern:
 
Very concerned to hear about the bus accident in Glasgow City Centre. My thoughts are with those involved.

At the scene, the front half of one bus has been partitioned off with a green fabric screen.
A police collision investigation unit is parked nearby and another bus is parked behind the first one.
Several traffic officers are at the scene.Argyle Street has been cordoned off from the junction with Union Street.
A spokeswoman for bus operator First Glasgow said: &quot;We can confirm an incident occurred this afternoon involving a First Glasgow service and two pedestrians.
&quot;We are doing everything we can to support the emergency services and a full investigation to establish exactly what happened is under way.
Try our quick news quiz below:
 
