A man and woman - believed to be in their 50s or 60s - have been seriously injured by a bus in central Glasgow.
They were struck by a double-decker First Glasgow service, at the corner of Argyle and Queen Street, at 14:30. 
Both casualties have since been removed from under the bus and taken to the city's Royal Infirmary.
Eyewitnesses described &quot;horrific&quot; and &quot;hysterical&quot; scenes in the aftermath. The road has been closed off and an investigation has got under way.
Eyewitness Jan Watson told the BBC: &quot;We were coming out from Primark and we saw the bus coming along and going round the corner.
&quot;It just stopped dead. We approached the crossing and people were coming round and we just followed the people. We saw a woman trapped underneath the wheel.&quot;
She added: &quot;There was a lot of shouting and screaming. A few people were hysterical because they had actually witnessed it. It was horrific.
&quot;I saw part of the lady and saw something under the wheel which I have been told is an elderly man.&quot;
Jordan Macrae, 18, told BBC Scotland he was coming out of a shop on Argyle Street when the crash happened.
&quot;From what we could see there was two people under the bus,&quot; he said.
&quot;It was horrible. There was screaming. Everyone was on their phone trying to call the emergency services.&quot;
&quot;Everyone was crowding round, trying to see if they could help. The people that went and helped were really good.&quot;
There was a major deployment of emergency services to the crash scene.
The Scottish Fire and Rescue Service said it had up to 25 firefighters on the scene, who used airbags to release two people from underneath the bus.
A spokesman said: &quot;Scottish Fire and Rescue Service crews attended an incident in Queen Street in Glasgow city centre following a call from ambulance control around 2.35pm.
&quot;Four appliances from Calton and Cowcaddens community fire stations attended the incident along with a heavy rescue vehicle from Easterhouse.
&quot;The firefighters, who were working closely with paramedics and doctors, used airbags to release two people from beneath a bus.
&quot;Both casualties were taken to Glasgow Royal Infirmary by ambulance.&quot;
A spokesman for the Scottish Ambulance Service said they had &quot;a number of ambulance crews&quot; on the scene as well as a special operations team and a trauma team.
A Police Scotland spokeswoman said: &quot;We received a report about 2.30pm that two people had been struck by a bus at the corner of Queen Street and Argyle Street in Glasgow. 
&quot;The road is closed with diversions in place.&quot;
A spokeswoman for First Group said: &quot;We can confirm an incident occurred this afternoon involving a First Glasgow service and two pedestrians. 
&quot;We are doing everything we can to support the emergency services and a full investigation to establish exactly what happened is under way.&quot;
BBC Scotland political reporter Andrew Black, who is at the scene, said: &quot;Just after 16:00 accident investigators arrived, so very quickly the investigation to establish exactly what happened here this afternoon is taking place.
&quot;It is expected that that will continue for some hours to come.&quot;
