TWO pensioners were fighting for their lives last night after they were trapped under a double decker bus while crossing a busy road.
Dozens of shoppers witnessed the accident at the corner of Queen Street and Argyle Street in the heart of Glasgow city centre.
Firefighters had to use air bags to free the man and woman, who were taken to the city’s Royal Infirmary. Their &shy;conditions were not known last night.
The accident happened at about 2.30pm as the bus passed a pedestrian crossing beside a Foot Locker shoe shop and across from &shy;Debenhams.
Scottish Fire and Rescue Service sent 25 firefighters and several applicances to help the rescue.
The front half of the bus was cordoned off with a green fabric screen.
Witnesses described horrific scenes.
 

Jan Watson told the BBC: “We were coming out from Primark and we saw the bus coming along and going round the corner.
“It just stopped dead.
“We approached the crossing and people were coming round and we just followed the people.
“We saw a woman trapped underneath the wheel. There was a lot of shouting and screaming.
“A few people were hysterical because they had actually witnessed it.”
Jordan Macrae, 18, was coming out of a shop on Argyle Street when the crash happened.
He said: “From what we could see there were two people under the bus. It was horrible. Everyone was crowding round, trying to see if they could help.
“The people that went and helped were really good.”
 

Part of the city centre was brought to a standstill as nearby roads were closed.
The Scottish Ambulance Service said a number of crews as well as a special operations team and a trauma team were at the scene.
A spokeswoman for bus operator First Glasgow said: “We are doing everything we can to support the emergency services and a full investigation to establish what happened is under way.”
The accident came five months after the George Square bin lorry crash, which claimed the lives of six people at the other end of Queen Street in December.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

