The condition of an elderly couple who were seriously injured by a bus in the centre of Glasgow has improved.
The woman, 72, and the man, 76, were struck by a double-decker First Glasgow service, at the corner of Argyle and Queen Street, at 14:30 on Friday.
Both were removed from under the wheels of the bus by emergency services and taken to the city's Royal Infirmary.
Police said the condition of both patients had improved overnight from &quot;critical&quot; to &quot;serious&quot;.
Eyewitnesses described &quot;horrific&quot; and &quot;hysterical&quot; scenes in the aftermath. A police investigation is under way.
The bus driver was uninjured but said to be extremely shaken as a result of the incident.
Eyewitness Jan Watson told the BBC: &quot;We were coming out from Primark and we saw the bus coming along and going round the corner.
&quot;It just stopped dead. We approached the crossing and people were coming round and we just followed the people. We saw a woman trapped underneath the wheel.&quot;
She added: &quot;There was a lot of shouting and screaming. A few people were hysterical because they had actually witnessed it. It was horrific.
&quot;I saw part of the lady and saw something under the wheel which I have been told is an elderly man.&quot;
Jordan Macrae, 18, told BBC Scotland he was coming out of a shop on Argyle Street when the crash happened.
&quot;From what we could see there was two people under the bus,&quot; he said.
&quot;It was horrible. There was screaming. Everyone was on their phone trying to call the emergency services.&quot;
&quot;Everyone was crowding round, trying to see if they could help. The people that went and helped were really good.&quot;
Sgt Andrew Mair from Police Scotland said: &quot;Where the crash happened is an extremely busy shopping area, and I would appeal to any witnesses who have not yet spoken to police to contact us.&quot;
There was a major deployment of emergency services to the crash scene.
The Scottish Fire and Rescue Service said it had up to 25 firefighters on the scene, who used airbags to release two people from underneath the bus.
A spokeswoman for First Group said a full investigation was under way to establish what happened. 
