 THE story of Crazy Jane is all the more remarkable for it being true. 
An abusive childhood led Jane Avril to an asylum but her life reached far beyond that to the Moulin Rouge, no less, where she was immortalised in the paintings of Toulouse Lautrec.
If her likeness is more familiar than most people realise, however, her story – the latest production of the Birds of Paradise Theatre – is not.
In common with most people, Pauline Knowles, who plays the older Jane alongside Rachael Drazek’s younger version in the play, knew little about her before accepting the part but she has been taken with her incredible real life story.
 

She said: “I had no idea. I would recognise the paintings and posters but had no idea this was a specific woman he painted and her name was Jane Avril with this incredible history. The research has been fascinating.
“As a child she was physically and mentally abused by her mother who was a high-class prostitute and because of the beatings she developed St Vitus Dance, which is now known as chorea, which is an involuntary twitching and spasming of the body. She had that quite severely and ended up in the Salp&ecirc;tri&egrave;re Asylum. Part of the treatment was to give her dance lessons and she created a whole new life for herself.
“The play sees the older Jane looking back and remembering scenes from her childhood. The older Jane is the star at the Moulin Rouge, friend and muse of Toulouse Lautrec and the story is her trying to reconcile herself with her past. She wants to reinvent herself but until she can do that she can’t really heal or move on.”
 

Written by Nicola McCartney and directed by Garry Robson, Crazy Jane mixes theatre and dance with an original score by Scottish hip hop artist Hector Bizerk.
It recounts her journey from the brothels of Paris, via the asylum wards where she was treated by Professor Charcot whose junior staff included Drs Freud, Tourette, Jung and Alzheimer, and on to the Moulin Rouge where she was nicknamed La M&eacute;linite, after a kind of dynamite.
 Recreating the Moulin Rouge in the theatres around Scotland – Glasgow, Edinburgh, Aberdeen to Dundee, Kirkcaldy and Kyle of Lochalsh – has been a challenge. 
Pauline said: “The wonderful George Drennan plays the MC and many other parts. He introduces the characters and the story unfolds in the Moulin Rouge, although the stage has to double as many other locations including the asylum.
“We have projections of the Lautrec paintings, the asylum, Paris in the spring and what really nails it is wonderful music written by Hector Bizerk. It’s wild kind of club music so you are right in it.”
  Crazy Jane plays The Lemon Tree, Aberdeen, June 2; Eden Court, Inverness, June 4; Dornie Village Hall, Kyle Of Lochalsh, June 5. Full details of tour which runs until June 13, at www.birdsofparadisetheatre.co.uk  
 Test your knowledge with our entertainment quiz: 

