PROSECUTORS have not given up on nailing the second gunman involved in the gangland execution of Kevin “Gerbil” Carroll.
 Billy Paterson, 35, was jailed for a minimum of 22 years on Thursday after being convicted of murdering Carroll in an Asda car park five years ago. 
But a case review was carried out after a previous prosecution against Ross Monaghan, a known associate of Paterson, collapsed in 2012.
The Crown Office have refused to divulge its findings amid concerns it could prejudice possible fresh proceedings in the case.
But sources have revealed that Monaghan, 33, could be put back in the dock.
The law preventing a person being prosecuted twice for the same crime – known as double jeopardy – was changed in 2011 and allows re-prosecution of an accused if new evidence emerges.
Eyewitnesses have always spoken of how two men were involved in the attack on Carroll as he sat in the back seat of his car.
The trial of Monaghan collapsed in 2012 amid fierce criticism of Crown Office prosecutors and police.
A Crown Office spokesman said: “Unresolved homicides are never closed and are continually reviewed to establish if there is any basis for raising criminal proceedings.
“Following the acquittal of Ross Monaghan, the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service worked closely with Police Scotland to review the case to ascertain if there were any new evidential developments, including advances in forensic techniques, which would assist in providing a basis for criminal proceedings.
“There is a risk of prejudicing fresh prosecutions by commenting further on individual cases or review results.”
But last week a source said: “The Crown Office position on double jeopardy is well known. The Lord Advocate has spoken about it at length on a number of occasions and has taken the lead on these types of cases where appropriate. This is not the end.”
 

Paterson’s trial this month heard from witnesses who spoke of two men carrying out the fatal shooting of Carroll.
Asda store manager Steven McKenna told the High Court: “The parked car had two males moving away at pace – they were running. Two males from the other car were firing.”
A shopper who witnessed the attack added: “I saw two guys jumping out of the car and I saw a gun so that’s when I started to back up with my trolley.”
Carroll, a feared enforcer with the Daniel crime clan in Glasgow’s north side, was shot dead outside Asda in Robroyston in January 2010 after a long-running feud with the rival Lyons family.
Monaghan was charged with the murder and put on trial in 2012 – but proceedings collapsed after the judge ruled there was no case to answer due to a lack of evidence.
Lord Advocate Frank Mulholland decided not to appeal against the judge’s decision.
Prosecutors had also wanted Paterson in the dock with him but settled for Monaghan alone when Paterson fled to Spain 10 days after the shooting.
Last week, Paterson was convicted by a majority verdict of the murder and ordered to serve at least 22 years before he is eligible for parole.
Prosecutors previously threw out a case against the first man arrested for Carroll’s murder – his former associate Craig “Rob Roy” Gallagher.
It is understood possible proceedings against a further suspect were ruled out due to insufficient evidence.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

