WHEN funnyman Tony Roper took to the stage of the world’s oldest music hall yesterday, he was praying the audience would not be as hostile as they were in his grandfather’s day.
Back in the late 1800s, it was not uncommon for the crowds at Glasgow’s Britannia Panopticon to throw rivets, nails and even horse manure at the performers.
The Rab C Nesbitt star, whose grandad Daniel Malloch enjoyed regular nights out at the music hall, admits he is glad audiences are much more civilised these days.
 Tony, 73, who was performing at a variety show to celebrate the refurbishment of the Trongate  theatre’s original stage, said: “My grandfather was a quiet, hardworking man who would go to the Panopticon with his mates to let his hair down and be entertained. 
“It was a place to escape the harsh realities of life. The audiences were raucous and would start throwing missiles at the acts if they did not come up to scratch.
 

“It was common for folk in the balcony to wee on performers. I’m so glad crowds these days are not as harsh or I would have to wear a helmet.”
 Tony, who played Jamesie in classic BBC comedy Rab C Nesbitt for 26 years, added: “My grandfather was a blacksmith and, when they started restoration work on the stage, they found a heap of rivets.  Perhaps some belonged to him. 
“The worst things I’ve had lobbed at me were sweets at the pantomime but if I get hit by a hot rivet during my Panopticon performance, I will know where my grandfather has ended up and it isn’t heaven. It tickles me to be entertaining in the same place Daniel frequented nearly 150 years ago.”
Tony, famed for creating much-loved play The Steamie, joined The Krankies, Dorothy Paul and Ronnie Christie at yesterday’s star-studded launch show.
The Britannia Panopticon began life in the late 1850s when 1500-strong crowds would cram in to watch acts of all shapes and sizes.
Over the years, it has seen a host of international stars, from Stan Laurel – who debuted there in 1906 – to Sir Harry Lauder and Cary Grant.
It survived World War I, the 1920s and the depression of the 30s but, by 1938, after entertaining Glasgow for 81 years, the Panopticon found it could no longer compete with the cinema and shut its doors.
It lay abandoned until 1997 when it was discovered by archaeologist and historian Judith Bowers who, along with a team of volunteers, has spent 20 years researching and restoring the old theatre.
Judith, who is over the moon to have completed the stage restoration, believes the music hall has survived because of the behaviour of the raucous audiences. She said: “A music hall in the 1850s was usually the back room to a pub and your bottle of beer was the admission to the music hall.
“Being upstairs is one of the secrets to its survival. They couldn’t build a music hall behind the pub in this building because it had tenements too close to it at the back.
“Music halls were all wooden, lit by naked candlelight and heated by coal fires. Everyone smoked pipes and would knock the embers out on the wooden floors.
“The average life of a music hall was 20 to 25 years before it burned down.
“But because this music hall was one floor up, it was more difficult for people to get out to urinate. So they urinated where they stood, which meant the wood was too saturated to ignite.
“Boys on the balcony would urinate on the acts on stage as a sport. But if they were at the back of the balcony, they would throw horse manure instead.
“It was where they came to let off steam. They were wild nights and that is why it is the oldest-surviving music hall in the world.”
Tony, who performed old-time monologues at the launch show, said: “The Panopticon is an amazing place and I can see why Judith fell in love with it.
“It was basically a ruin and she has breathed life back into it. To have restored the old stage to its original glory is no mean feat.
“The old theatres were all made of wood and most burned to the ground so it is a fluke the Panopticon survived at all. It’s a historical buttonhole and I am honoured to be one of the first to tread its resurrected boards.
“I’m following in huge footsteps, including those of Little Tich, who was an acrobat and performer who danced in boots with 28in soles.
“I know the variety show is going to be the first of many and I look forward to supporting the Panopticon in as many ways as I can.”
