The condition of an elderly man and woman badly injured when they became trapped under a bus has improved.
The pedestrians were hit by the double-decker at about 2.35pm yesterday at the corner of Queen Street and Argyle Street in Glasgow city centre.
The two injured people, both believed to be in their 70s, were taken by ambulance to Glasgow Royal Infirmary where hospital staff yesterday described their condition as critical.
It is understood their condition improved overnight from critical to serious.
An investigation into the incident is continuing.
The crash, in a busy shopping area, prompted a major response from the emergency services, with a number of fire engines and a special operations team from the ambulance service involved.
Fire crews used airbags to release the two casualties from underneath the bus.
The bus driver was uninjured but was left extremely shaken by the incident.
The accident happened just a few hundred metres from the scene of the bin lorry crash which claimed the lives of six people in December last year.
Police have appealed for information.
Sergeant Andrew Mair, from the road policing department, said: “Where the crash happened is an extremely busy shopping area and I would appeal to any witnesses who have not yet spoken to police to contact us by calling 101, the non-emergency number for Police Scotland.”
The Scottish Fire and Rescue Service had up to 25 firefighters on the scene at the height of the incident.
Part of the city centre was brought to a standstill as nearby roads were closed and emergency services worked to deal with the situation.
The Scottish Ambulance Service had a number of crews on the scene as well as a special operations team and a trauma unit.
A spokeswoman for bus operator First Glasgow said yesterday: “We are doing everything we can to support the emergency services and a full investigation to establish exactly what happened is under way.”
First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said on Twitter: “Very concerned to hear about the bus accident in Glasgow city centre. My thoughts are with those involved.”



