UNDER his Hudson Mohawke alias, Ross Birchard is one of the most in-demand producers in the world, with artists like Kanye West and Drake calling on his services.
 So it’s little wonder the former Glasgow barman is still learning – from those rap superstars. Despite being one of the most prolific artists in recent years, he’s about to drop what is only his second official solo album, using techniques and ideas that he’s picked up from working with those big names – especially Mr West. 
 Ross said: “It’d be hard not to learn anything from Kanye, as he has a very particular way of working which is difficult not to let rub off on you. I’ve learned a lot just from observing how an A-list album like that is put together and incorporating it into my own record.” 
That album is the incredible Lantern, released next month on the legendary UK electronic label Warp – the first full-length record Birchard has released since his 2009 debut Butter.
He said: “I’ve done other collaborative projects, like the trap music duo TNGHT, which was made with a Canadian artist called Lunice, as well as work with other, more mainstream artists and various solo projects. A lot of people became aware of me because of the TNGHT project, even though I had a number of EPs and other projects out already.
“The TNGHT record was a lot of fun, but only played to one kind of crowd, which is not my full range of taste. I wanted to release a record that covered the full breadth of my influences.”
One thing that is noticeable about the new album is that it doesn’t contain any guest rap features, something Birchard was adamant he didn’t want.
 

He said: “I did a project last year for Vice called The Rap Monument, which was literally just one 45-minute long rap song, so I felt I had ticked all my rap boxes for a while. I wanted something more vocalist and song-based.”
The album is no less diverse for the lack of rap, featuring a host of collaborations, leading Ross to describe his role as more of an executive producer, a skill that he had learned over the period since Butter was released. Up until then he worked solo.
 Ross said: “I wanted to bring a lot more folk into putting this record together, in as far as extra musicians and extra sets of ears. Having people like Mark Ronson and Zane Lowe involved can give a different perspective to various tracks.” 
With anyone else a six-year gap might have seemed epic, but Birchard has hardly stopped working, so much so that he didn’t even realise it had been so long.
He said: “It’s only since I started doing the promo for this record that I realised it’s been six years. I’ve released a couple of EPs and I’ve also had the TNGHT project which took over a great deal of my time, as well as working on the Kanye West project, the last Drake record and various other things over the period of time. I realised I was going to have to focus on this now, because either I continue doing the TNGHT project or put that on hiatus and do something more satisfying and overall creative for myself.”
 

The first track to drop off Lantern is the astonishing Scud Books, a massive emotional anthem, which took its initial inspiration from an unlikely source.
 Ross said: “To be honest, I just ripped it off Limmy. One of his characters was talking about the school thing where you find the porno mags in the playground, which I found hilarious. I wanted to do something hip-hop focused but still had the kind of euphoric feel to it, as I wanted to bring those two worlds together.” 
Birchard’s ambition was to make a classic album, or at least a classic for him and his friends. He’s leaving it for others to decide if he has pulled it off.
 He said: “I don’t feel that’s something for me to say, but it’s certainly something I’m proud of. The first album, with it being my first ever full-length release, was more  a compilation of tracks I’d done, whereas here I’ve seen an album created from start to finish in one go. It’s the first time I’ve done an album specifically put together as an album. I feel I’ve achieved that but it’s not up to me to pass judgement.” 
 As well as his work with Kanye and Drake, Ross has completed another collaboration with Antony Hegarty of Antony And The Johnsons, a project that allowed both artists to fulfil their desires to explore new directions in their music. 
He said: “At first, I wanted to make a song that wasn’t just a token thing with him just singing over it. I wanted to make it a real song and he wanted to experiment with new styles of production.
“A lot of his back catalogue is piano or orchestral-focused, so he was very keen to experiment with a more electronic sound. I’m really glad it’s worked out so brilliantly and we have a bunch of other songs that are going to be part of his new project.
“The plan was to release a song or two every month for the rest of the year, rather than doing it as a whole album.”
With international stars clamouring to work with him, Ross still has his feet on the ground and is appreciative of where his music has taken him, not least when he got the call from Drake.
He said: “I’m a huge fan of Drake, so to have that opportunity was incredible. You spend years sending demos and music to people, but nothing happens until they actually approach you, then more often than not they’re completely oblivious as it never made it as far as them. I’d been trying to send Drake music for five years but he was never aware of it.”
With such a diverse interest in music, it’s important to Birchard that he has different outlets for his work, hence him being signed to two different labels, Warp and Kanye’s G.O.O.D. Music.
 

Ross said: “Warp is one of the few labels that’s well-established but you have total creative freedom to go in whatever direction you want. As far as the G.O.O.D. Music stuff, it’s less of a label and more of a collective, working on various artists’ albums. My solo records will always be on Warp. It’s the perfect set-up.”
Ross still has some names on his bucket list that he’d love to get in the studio with.
He said: “I’d like to work with Stevie Wonder, but the main one has to be Prince.”
He spends a lot of time abroad but Ross is still a Glasgow boy and is dismayed at the closure of the Arches by police.
He said: “It’s utterly ridiculous. It’s not just a club; it’s a theatre space, an arts space, a live venue and a restaurant. It’s unfair because of a couple of bad incidents to come down so hard on them. It’s such a major venue. As long as the petition keeps going, hopefully it’ll work out in the end.”
Looking ahead, Ross has packed schedule through summer and beyond.
He said: “We’re starting a live show in New York this week, then I have more DJ dates before hitting the festival circuit.
“I’m booked up most of the summer, from Britain and Europe to North America and Japan. I’m a bit scared to look at the schedule to be honest, but at the same time, I just can’t wait to get back out there.” Lantern is out on Warp on June 15.
 Test your knowledge with our showbiz quiz: 

