BRA Queen Michelle Mone has changed her mind about the reasons for leaving Scotland.
The Ultimo founder told the Daily Mail she was quitting her homeland because her spiralling career and “global commitments” mean she needs to be based in London and New York.
But she has now penned an article in the Mail on Sunday which claims cybernats have driven her out of her Glasgow home.
Mother-of-three Mone, 43, said on May 22: “I’m now number one woman speaker in the UK, touring round the globe, speaking with some of the biggest stars and leaders in the world.

“I’ve been doing over 200 flights a year to remain in Scotland but unfortunately, because of new deals, I need to move to London and the US.”
Inevitably, that decision was met with a torrent of nasty abuse on Twitter from the nasty minority of cybernats, whom Mone, a Tory, branded “muppets”.
She said: “Note all the SNP muppets. I haven’t turned my back on Scotland, purely biz global commitments. I certainly won’t miss u angry, hated, jealous lot.”
She also claimed she would leave Scotland if there was a Yes vote in the independence referendum.

However, her latest interview in the Mail on Sunday claims that cybernats on social media have driven her out of Scotland.
She said: “I found myself caught up in a growing, and extremely vitriolic social media hate campaign after becoming one of only a few business leaders to come out in favour of both nations remaining together. For the first time, I didn’t feel safe in Scotland.
“I have absolutely no problem with people expressing an opinion, but if you are going to be disrespectful, I don’t want to hear it.
“I was called a ‘c***’, a ‘cow’, a ‘slut’, as well as being told, ‘I’m going to get it’ and ‘We’ll come and get you’. I was also told they were ‘going to throw me across the border’.

“The mood has got consistently worse and I now believe that the Scottish National Party’s Scotland is becoming a place consumed by hatred and ill will, a place where free speech is gradually being crushed and enterprise is despised.
“It is no wonder then that I no longer wish to live in Scotland – and have moved away from the place I’ve called home for 43 years.”
 Try your hand at our showbiz quiz 

