THE DAILY Record Rugby Show rounds off the season with a special programme from Belfast where Glasgow Warriors provided a fantastic finale with a thrilling GUINNESS PRO12 Final win over Munster.
David Ferguson caught up with confident Warriors fans of all ages at Malone Rugby Club on the morning of the game, including some familiar faces, and in this exclusive report brings you the atmosphere from the Kingspan Stadium and post-match interviews with the Glasgow and Munster coaches, Gregor Townsend and Anthony Foley, and final try-scorer Finn Russell on what turned out to be the greatest day in the Warriors' history to date.
Townsend reveals that he was motivated by watching Irish rugby rise up on the back of Ulster's famous European triumph in 1999 and he hopes for a similar boost to the Scottish game for both Edinburgh and Glasgow on the back of the stunning, four-try 31-13 win on Saturday.
 


Former Ireland star Foley admits that his team were a distinct second-best and explains where he thinks they got it wrong, and the Warriors got it right, but insists that repeating the feat all be a major challenge for Glasgow while the real 'acid test' remains succeeding in Europe. He achieved that with Munster, but Glasgow have yet to reach the quarter-finals of the European Cup.
Russell also shares his thoughts on what the victory means for Glasgow, Scottish rugby as a whole and the Scotland team as it prepares for the Rugby World Cup in England later this year. And the 22-year-old reveals the secrets of the messages written on his hand. Jokes and dance moves apparently.
Thank you to all the viewers who have followed the Daily Record Rugby Show throughout the season, as we have brought you exclusive interviews and news from the club game, Edinburgh and Glasgow camps and throughout Scotland's international season. We hope to see you again in the new season.
 Until then, tell your friends where to find the best coverage of Scottish rugby online - www.dailyrecord.co.uk/rugby 

