 Scottish Professional Football League officials will meet the Scottish FA and the police on Monday to discuss the aftermath of Sunday's play-off final between Motherwell and Rangers. 
 Police Scotland are reviewing the brawl at the end of the game where Motherwell retained their Premiership status. 
 Rangers' Tunisian defender Bilel Mohsni responded to a push by Lee Erwin by aiming a kick and punch at the striker. 
 He then tussled with Motherwell's unused substitute Fraser Kerr. 
 All three players were shown red cards by Craig Thomson after the match. 
 The match delegate is due to deliver his report to the SPFL on Monday afternoon. 
 Assistant chief constable Bernard Higgins said: &quot;Police Scotland will conduct a full review of the circumstances and liaise with the appropriate partners, and decide how best to take the matter forward over the coming days.&quot; 
 Rangers manager Stuart McCall said he missed the incident, but acknowledged such behaviour was &quot;unacceptable&quot;. 
 Speaking after his side's 3-0 loss at Fir Park, he said: &quot;If he has thrown a punch that's disgraceful. 
 &quot;But it's safe to say he won't be at the club next season. He's out of contract.&quot; 
 Motherwell boss Ian Baraclough said the scenes detracted from a great day for the Lanarkshire club, who triumphed 6-1 on aggregate to retain their top-flight status. 
 &quot;There's been an outpouring of emotions, shall we say, and it's gone too far,&quot; he told BBC Scotland. 
 &quot;Scottish football doesn't need it. There were two teams battling it out over 180 minutes, they gave it absolutely everything. 
 &quot;For one or two individuals to ruin it, tarnish it, is a shame.&quot; 
 Erwin appeared to shove Mohsni after the defender refused his offer of a handshake and describe his opponent's reaction as &quot;embarrassing&quot; in a television interview, given with blood on his face. 
 Motherwell fans spilled onto the pitch while the fight was going on and had to be ushered away by police and stewards as they goaded Rangers supporters. 
 Former Scottish FA chief executive Gordon Smith believes it should be for the football authorities, not the Police, to deal with the matter. 
 &quot;I think it was thuggery,&quot; Smith told BBC Scotland. &quot;It's happened in a football match and the football authorities have to deal with it. 
 &quot;I don't think the police should be involved.&quot; 
 Moshni should receive a hefty fine and a six to eight-game ban, he added. 
