JAK Trueman, the teenager diagnosed with cancer whose inspiring fundraising captured the heart of the nation, has been hailed our Young Scot of 2015.
Just months after he died, aged 15, his family received an emotional standing ovation as they accepted the honour at a star-studded ceremony in Edinburgh’s Usher Hall.
The applause was deafening as the 1500-strong audience stood in tribute to the brave lad, who spent his last days raising money for cancer charities.
As well as the top honour, Jak was also named our Young Hero winner.
His mum Allison Barr, 44, of Mid Calder, West Lothian, said she was “bursting with pride” that her “amazing, and beautiful” son had been honoured with such special awards.
She added that her only sadness was that Jak – who died in February – was not there to accept them himself.
Allison said: “Words cannot describe what a huge honour and privilege it is to receive this on Jak’s behalf and to get a standing ovation.
“This time last year, Jak was a fit and healthy lad so to be accepting these awards on his behalf is bitter-sweet – but amazing too.
 

“I saw a phrase recently that I’m told sums up what many people think about at the end of their lives. It read, ‘Did I live? Did I love? Did I matter?’
“Jak lived. Jak loved and was loved by all. And Jak certainly mattered.
“These awards, all the fundraising that has been carried out in Jak’s name, all the messages of love and support we have received, and the charity we have set up all show that.”
Allison added: “The Sunday Mail Young Scot Awards is a truly inspirational night and I send my huge congratulations to all the amazing finalists, nominees and winners. I am such a proud mum.”

Football-mad Jak was diagnosed with rare blood cancer T-cell lymphoma last summer, prompting he and his friends and family to start raising cash for cancer charities.
So far, Team Jak have raised an astonishing &pound;100,000 for Edinburgh Sick Kids Friends Foundation, Children in Need, Clic Sargent and Lymphoma and Leukaemia Research.
More than &pound;60,000 was raised in the three weeks before Jak died.
The big- hearted youngster’s final wish was for his friends and family to continue raising money. His legacy will be a teenage cancer centre called Jak’s Den.
His emotional award was just one of the highlights of a sensational night of tears and cheers saluting Scotland’s most inspirational young people.

The Sunday Mail once again teamed up with youth information charity Young Scot to stage our 10th annual Young Scot Awards.
Filled with stories of courage, determination and selflessness, the event honours the nation’s most incredible youngsters.
Thursday’s ceremony, hosted by DJ Edith Bowman, was attended by showbiz stars but the real heroes were our 32 finalists
Cast members from EastEnders, Emmerdale, River City, and Geordie Shore ensured it was a night to remember for the 1500 guests at the iconic Edinburgh venue.
 

It was a night of a thousand selfies, as fans thronged to get photographs with stars including BGT’s Ashley and Pudsey and Only the Young and Andrea Faustini from X Factor.
Pop band Prides, who shot to fame after performing at Glasgow 2014, got the show off to an electric start as they exploded on to stage in a flurry of fireworks.
 
And Voice winner Stevie McCrorie could hardly be heard above the screaming of his fans as he hit the stage to perform his single Lost Stars and Kodaline’s All I Want.
 

River City actress Keira Lucchesi got one of the biggest cheers of the night as she picked up the Entertainment award from EastEnders’ Jay, actor Jamie Borthwick.
Keira, 25, who plays Stella Walker in the BBC’s Scots soap, said: “I have been coming to the Young Scot Awards for three years and never dreamed I would ever get one.”
There was huge applause for Carol Sharp, who accepted the Sports Award on behalf of her running star daughter Lynsey, who is in Florida training.

Lynsey’s silver medal in the 800m became one of the stand-out moments of the 2014 Commonwealth Games as, just hours before the race, she was in a hospital bed on a drip.
Carol told the audience: “The common denominator is that everyone here tonight, like Lynsey, has never accepted defeat. They have fought in the face of adversity and got back up again after being knocked down.”
First Minister Nicola Sturgeon could not attend the awards because it clashed with a live BBC debate but sent a video message hailing the finalists.
 
Her deputy John Swinney also saluted Scotland’s amazing young people before presenting the Young Scot award to Jak’s mum Allison. The glittering extravaganza was rounded off with a performance by teen pin-up Conor Maynard, who got all the winners up for a rousing finale.

Kevin Roxburgh, managing director of event sponsors Scottish Gas, said: “It has been an inspirational and emotional night to mark 10 years of the Young Scot Awards.
“Jak Trueman was an extraordinary young man and it is fitting the Young Scot Award was given in his honour. But all the winners and nominees are extraordinary and I am glad we have been able to celebrate their success.”
Louise Macdonald, chief executive of Young Scot, said: “This year’s Young Scot Awards has been the biggest celebration of Scotland’s young people to date, which is testament to the incredible work young Scots have done over the last 10 years.
 

“It’s important that the hard work and dedication of every Young Scot nominee over the past 10 years is carried on by other young people in communities across the country.
“It’s equally important we recognise the achievements of these inspirational young people and celebrate them every day.”
Sunday Mail editor Jim Wilson said Jak Trueman’s life was far too short but his legacy will help young people and their families for years go come.
He added: “It is an honour to help salute Jak and our other winners and finalists.
“Once again, our Young Scots have shown the future of our country could not be in safer hands.”

Jak Trueman, 15, Mid Calder, West Lothian
Winner Kevin Martin, 21, Carntyne, Glasgow

Finalists Patrick Kiehlmann, 11, Glasgow; Hayley Leys, 21, Aberdeen
Sponsors Solace
Winner Mark Flood, 18, Glasgow

Finalists Emma McDonald, 24, Peebles; Aleena Lippiatt, 26, Glasgow
Sponsors Skills Development Scotland
Winner Jamie McIntosh, 15, Edinburgh

Finalists Natalie Curran, 17, Glasgow; The Unstoppables, 16-19, Dundee
Winner Michael Gowan, 20, Summerhill, Dumfries

Finalists Clydebank Teenagers, Clydebank; Recharge Youth Managers, 15 and 16, Tranent, East Lothian
Sponsors The Scottish Government
Winner Ross Gunning, 20, Glasgow

Finalists Claire Hastings, 25, Holywood, Dumfries; Hey, I’m Alive!: Jordan McKinley, Will Stringer, Jenny McCraw, Coleen Garrett and Christie Russell-Brown, 18-21, Edinburgh
Winner Ryan Ledgerwood, 17, Glasgow

Finalists Lauren Strain, 18, Coatbridge, Lanarkshire; Scott Sutherland, 22, Glasgow
Sponsors QMS
Winner Lynsey Sharp, 24, Edinburgh
Finalists Erraid Davies 14, Skeld, Shetland; Amy Clark, 15, Eaglesham, Renfrewshire
Sponsors sportscotland
Winner: Ryan Harris, 24, Maryhill, Glasgow

Finalists: Christopher Linton, 22, Montrose, and Charlie’s Plot, 10-14, Methilhill, Fife
Sponsors Scottish Gas
Winner Keira Lucchesi

Finalists Ian Henderson, 20; Eubha Akilade, 16
Sponsors Megabus
Winner Puneet Puri, 21, Glasgow

Finalist Ahmed Ibrahim, 23, Glasgow
Sponsors University of St Andrews
Winner Jak Trueman, 15, Mid Calder, West Lothian
Finalists Matthew Gibb, 14, Glasgow; Abi Wardle, 16, Galashiels, Selkirkshire
Sponsors The Co-operative
Support sponsors
Leckie &amp; Leckie, Legacy 2014, stormid BT and Highland Spring

