A FARMERS' leader has warned that the Scottish whisky trade could end up being clogged by the Dutch.
We told last week how farmers in Holland had signed up to a pilot project which uses their barley in our national drink .
The Dutch grain is harvested and transported to Scotland before being used by distillers.
But Allan Bowie, president of the National Farmers’ Union in Scotland, says foreign farmers could try to cash in on the worldwide demand for whisky after seeing profits dip due to a shrinking beer market.
He called on distilleries to give Scottish farmers the opportunity to meet the extra demand for barley before looking overseas.
Allan, who grows cereal crops including barley in Fife, said: “Can we produce more barley in Scotland? Yes – just give us the chance.
“What I don’t like to hear is contracts will be reduced here and companies will just source it from Holland, England, Germany or wherever.
“Our position is that we should be trying to use as much Scottish barley as possible in Scotch whisky.
“When you buy a bottle of whisky it’s not just the distilling you’re buying, it’s everything behind it – the provenance, the quality, the story.”

He added: “We need about 1.2million tonnes of barley every year for distilling in Scotland and this Dutch project is only producing about 2000 tonnes. The issue is, does it undermine the story of Scotch whisky?”
Allan says a problem exists with the middle stage in the Scotch process – turning barley into malt before it is distilled.
He said: “We feel that the pinch point here is malting capacity and we have raised this with the industry as well as with the Scottish Government.
“We can grow the barley but someone will need to malt it. On the continent, they have spare malting capacity as the brewing industry is not doing so well.
“Rather than building here in Scotland, it appears the industry may be looking to use capacity elsewhere.”
The Dutch project is being run by farming collective Agrifirm, who last week declined to comment.
Richard Lochhead, Rural Affairs Minister, said: “We need to ensure supplies of high quality Scottish barley meet the demands of this sector.
“Scotch whisky is in demand all over the globe and is hugely important to the Scottish economy, enjoying EU protected status.
“It’s important that farming, malting and whisky industries work together to strengthen the Scottish economy.”

