THE &quot;heartbroken&quot; family of a man who died in police custody will &quot;not rest until they have the truth&quot; about his death.
Sheku Bayoh, 31, was detained following an incident in Kirkcaldy, Fife, on May 3.
The Police Investigations and Review Commissioner (PIRC) is examining the circumstances of the father-of-two's death in custody a short time later.
Members of his family and his partner today told of their &quot;grave concerns&quot; and have called on Police Scotland to suspend officers who attended the incident while an inquiry takes place.
Aamer Anwar, the family's solicitor, said Mr Bayoh was a &quot;well-liked, peaceful and healthy young man&quot; who had no previous history of violence.
Mr Anwar said: &quot;The family does not understand why the officers involved in engaging with Sheku Bayoh were not immediately suspended without prejudice after his death.
&quot;It is a matter of wider public concern that officers remain at their desks or in contact with the public pending the outcome of the investigation into a death in custody.&quot;
 

Mr Bayoh's partner Collette Bell, mother to his four-month-old son, described him as her &quot;soulmate and best friend&quot;.
&quot;He was kind, caring and affectionate, and had so many aspirations,&quot; she said.
&quot;He was working hard to make a better future for our family and we had so much to look forward to.
&quot;I need answers as to why he was taken from me.&quot;
Speaking at a media conference in Edinburgh, she added: &quot;I want to know the whole truth of the circumstances surrounding his death so that one day I can explain to my son Isaac Bayoh why he has had to grow up without his daddy.&quot;
 

Relatives are also meeting the Lord Advocate, who instructed the PIRC to look at the case.
Brian Docherty, chairman of the Scottish Police Federation, said: &quot;The Scottish Police Federation (SPF) recognises that the family of Sheku Bayoh is mourning his death and that this is a painful process.
&quot;The SPF does not wish to add to that pain by making unhelpful comments to the press. We are saddened that his legal representatives appear not to take the same approach.
&quot;We are also saddened that his legal representatives are inferring police officers should not have the same legal protections as any other member of the public.
&quot;A petite female police officer responding to a call of a man brandishing a knife was subject to a violent and unprovoked attack by a large male. The officer believed she was going to die as a result of this assault.
&quot;I very much regret that Mr Bayoh sadly lost his own life following this incident, but innuendo and speculation whilst the independent investigation is ongoing adds nothing other than to the pain and grief of the family.
&quot;We make no apology for standing up for the rights of police officers and we continue to extend to the family and friends of Mr Bayoh our sincere condolences.&quot;
 

Mr Anwar claimed five different versions of events were given to Mr Bayoh's family by police officers over the course of 10 hours.
The lawyer said the family were advised officers had been called to the scene after responding to an alert following calls from members of the public.
He said reports of any officer having been stabbed were &quot;simply untrue&quot;.
Mr Anwar said suspending the officers without prejudice ensures &quot;neutrality, integrity of the investigation, transparency as well as protecting officers involved in such incidents&quot;.
Speaking after the SPF comments were made, he said: &quot;The family are deeply upset and disturbed at the tone of the police federation's press release today.
&quot;It beggars belief that police officers as of yet have not spoke to PIRC yet police federation are releasing details of what they believe to be the circumstances surrounding Mr Bayoh's death.
&quot;The central issue in this case is one of how did Mr Bayoh die in police custody. That matter is still to be investigated.&quot;
Mr Bayoh's sister Kadi Johnson, who was joined by his mother and another of his three sisters at the conference, talked about how he had moved to the UK when he was 11 years old and then to Scotland aged 17.
Mr Bayoh, who worked for British Gas, was father to four-month old Isaac and Tyler, his three-year-old son by a previous partner.
Mrs Johnson said Mr Bayoh, was a &quot;hard working father&quot; who lived for his two boys and was a &quot;kind man at the heart of his community&quot;.
&quot;At this point in time our family is heartbroken, not able to grieve; his body is still in a mortuary all alone,&quot; she said.
&quot;Even once we have buried my baby brother we will not be able to grieve until we know the truth.&quot;
Mrs Johnson added: &quot;Several versions of events were given to my family for several hours after his death until finally we were finally told he had died in police custody in early evening.
&quot;All we are asking for is the truth of what actually happened to my brother Sheku on morning of May 3. We all have grave concerns at the role of Police Scotland and are asking the Lord Advocate and the PIRC to help us get the truth.&quot;
PIRC said a report on its findings will be submitted to the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service in due course.
A spokeswoman said: &quot;The PIRC continues its independent investigation into the death of Sheku Ahmed Tejan Bayoh in Kirkcaldy on the morning of 3 May 2015.
&quot;The PIRC is making good progress in its investigation and the public response to appeals for information has been very positive.
&quot;The PIRC has appointed dedicated family liaison officers who keep in close contact with the family of Sheku Bayoh and their lawyer Mr Aamer Anwar.&quot;

