TEENAGER Dalitso Sailesi can’t walk down the street in Blantyre, Malawi without being stopped for autographs or photos.
The 19-year-old is a star winger for the Blantyre Bullets football team and a member of the national side.
And although his salary of 50,000 kwacha a month – &pound;75 – bears no comparison to that of international stars elsewhere, it is more than four times the average wage in Malawi, one of the world’s poorest countries.
That makes Dalitso, who is happy to own a bicycle rather than the flashy cars beloved of British players, a major success story.
And he is happy to thank Mary’s Meals for his achievement. He was seven when the Scottish charity moved in to help children at Nayizi School in the Bangwe township.
He said: “Mary’s Meals was very important for me because I don’t know if I would have gone to school if my parents did not know I was going to have food. It made a big difference.
“There were lots of boys at my school who were good players who did not go on to the next level because they didn’t stick with school.
“You cannot play football without proper food. I could see people who were tired and stopped playing. That makes me feel a bit sad.”
 
Dalitso’s manager, Ramadan Nsanzurwima, said the whole community was aware of Mary’s Meals. He added: “Our country is very poor and it is a fact that some people stop playing football because they have no work or no food.
“You people in Europe may find this difficult to understand but that is the reality here.”
The Bullets’ regular derby matches against city rivals Blantyre Wanderers pack the Kamuza Stadium with well more than the 3000 spectators it officially holds.
Dalitso said: “These matches are very important but I would like to go to Europe to play football with a big team. This is my dream.”
Another Mary’s Meals success story is Veronica Chiphwanya, 19, who was one of the first to be fed at school by the charity in 2002.
 Veronica was orphaned when she was young and faced massive odds  against succeeding in education. 
But she is now at university in Blantyre, doing a degree in education and business studies, and hopes to become an accountant.
She said: “I studied hard at school but it is true that it’s difficult to concentrate when you are hungry.
“I remember when I was at Chimoni School and Mary’s Meals arrived. The number of pupils immediately doubled and there was an excited atmosphere. It was a special time.”
Mary’s Meals this week announced that they are feeding a million children in places of education across the world every day.
Several communities in Malawi, where the charity began with just 200 children getting meals, held massive parties to celebrate the milestone being reached.

