 ST MIRREN fans have voted a six-year-old academy player as their player of the year - in recognition of the schoolboy's ongoing battle against cancer . 
 Aaron Woodall is in the midst of a spell of four courses of chemotherapy having already undergone radiotherapy and an earlier operation to remove a brain tumour . 
The youngster - a member of the club's junior academy team - was mascot for the club's Scottish Premiership game against Motherwell on December 20, hours after being released from hospital following surgery the previous month.
 Almost 500 fans voted in the poll for the www.blackandwhitearmy.com website and Aaron came out ahead of a number of first-team players. 
 

The website said: &quot;Aaron's strength and courage has been an inspiration to all of us, and a timely reminder of things around us that are much more important than football.
 &quot;We will be in touch with the club shortly to arrange to hand over our coveted trophy to this fine young man, who will also receive a framed St Mirren shirt, signed by the League Cup winning team of 2013 as part of his award. Congratulations Aaron and all the very best with your continued recovery.&quot; 
 Meanwhile, Saints midfielder Stephen Mallan has backed Gary Teale to continue as manager despite the club facing relegation - their fate will be sealed if Motherwell beat Kilmarnock on Friday night. 
 

Mallan said: &quot;He has been brilliant for me. He helped me when I was coming through the under-20 team and when he got the job he pushed me into the first team.
&quot;I can't thank him enough because he gave me the opportunity and helped me along with my career so much.&quot;He has helped me and the team. Everyone has a good relationship with Gary because he used to be a player, and he has good ideas. I hope he gets the job because I still want to work with him.
 &quot;Mallan collected an award himself at the weekend after winning the PFA Scotland goal of the season title for his solo effort against Dundee . 
&quot;The 19-year-old said: &quot;It's obviously not been the best season for St Mirren but that goal pushed me up a bit and gave me a wee bit of a lift as well.
&quot;I hope I can score a few more goals before the end of the season never mind a goal like that.&quot;
 Try our quick sport quiz below: 

