A FORMER footballer who starred for some of Scotland’s biggest clubs was fined at Paisley Sheriff Court yesterday after he admitted assaulting his fianc&eacute;e.
Stuart Duff, who enjoyed a successful career with the likes of Aberdeen, Dundee United and Inverness Caley Thistle, pushed Jennifer Hutchinson after they argued at her home in Millview Crescent, Johnstone, in the early hours of the morning on October 5 last year.
The court heard 33-year-old Duff had gone to her house with pals on October 4 but discovered she had already decided to go horse-riding.
The group then headed for a night out without her and, when Duff returned later on, he found Ms Hutchinson in bed.
He urged her to get up and join him but she refused.
Depute fiscal Mohammed Sarwar said a verbal argument took place and, when Duff went to leave at around 7am, Ms Hutchinson dialled 999.
As she was talking to the police, they could hear a disturbance taking place, so officers were sent to the house.
Duff was arrested after officers learned he had pushed Ms Hutchinson, causing her to fall against a coffee table and bruise her knee.
When quizzed, he told cops: “All I did was push her out of the way because she wouldn’t let me out.”
Solicitor advocate Bob Mitchell, defending, told the court Duff had been assaulted by Ms Hutchinson during an earlier encounter.
It was stated he had gone to the police station to report that incident to officers and, after deciding not to take matters any further, had been advised not to go back to her house but had done so in order to retrieve his belongings.
Mr Mitchell said the couple argued when Ms Hutchinson refused to get up after Duff returned from his night out and he had been upset about her “anti-social behaviour.”
He added: “In the course of that exchange, she assaulted him.”
Mr Mitchell passed photographs to the bench which had been taken at the time, showing scratches on Duff’s body.
“He had been advised not to return to the house but did,” added the lawyer. “There was an argument about the engagement ring when he was leaving and, in the course of that, he pushed her.
“He accepts that it was too hard.”
Duff, of Aberdeen, admitted assaulting Ms Hutchinson by pushing her, to her injury, but denied a second charge of behaving in a threatening or abusive manner, likely to cause fear and alarm, by shouting at her.
The Crown accepted his position on that charge.
Duff, who now works as an engineer in the offshore gas and oil industry, was fined &pound;225 by Sheriff Eric Brown.
He was ordered to pay up within 30 days.

