An injured toddler waited a staggering 50 hours to receive just three stitches.
Little Cassara Rodgers, four, was bounced between two A&amp;E departments after splitting open her lip on Friday afternoon.
Worried dad Alex first took the traumatised tot to Glasgow's Victoria Infirmary's A&amp;E before being referred to Yorkhill Hospital across the city.
The family were then told to return to the dedicated children's hospital at 7am on Saturday, where Cassara sat for 12 hours before being told there was only one theatre and one surgeon operating and they would have to return the following morning.
A staggering 50 hours after she was first taken to hospital, Cassara received the stitches and was discharged from hospital at 7pm on Sunday May 17.
 

Her 32-year-old dad hit out at the &quot;completely unacceptable&quot; delays and raised concerns about the new South Glasgow hospital's ability to deal with sick children after his daughter's experience at Yorkhill.
Chef Alex said: &quot;The nurses were embarrassed about fact we had been waiting so long. They told us to complain so they could maybe get more staff.
&quot;She only needed three stitches, it wasn't a major surgery. But to have an open wound on her face for that long is just ridiculous.
&quot;I was asking them why there was only one surgeon, one theatre, for a hospital of that size.
&quot;I just don't know how they will cope when Yorkhill shuts and everything moves to the new place. They can't seem to cope at the moment.&quot;
 

As Cassara had to undergo an anaesthetic, she was unable to eat while she was waiting - at one point fasting for a full 24 hours - leaving her exhausted, distressed and physically sick.
Alex said:&quot;Cassara could only have water on the Saturday and it made her feel so unwell. She was vomiting bile because she was so hungry.&quot;
 
A spokesman for NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde said there was no problem with understaffing at Yorkhill, and the suggestion was &quot;totally wrong&quot;.
He also said: &quot;When this patient presented to the RHSC A&amp;E department she was booked in for a planned procedure with our plastic surgery team the following day.
&quot;When she arrived at the hospital on Saturday she was admitted to a ward in advance of her procedure.
&quot;During her time on the ward she was monitored by nursing staff and the plastic surgeon was also in regular contact with her family.&quot;
 

&quot;Regrettably her procedure had to be postponed later that day due to a number of highly complex emergency cases which had presented that day and had to be prioritised ahead of this young patient whose procedure was more routine,&quot; the spokesman continued. 
&quot;The patient's surgery went ahead the following day (Sunday, May 16).
&quot;We recognise the upset to the family having fasted their daughter in preparation for this procedure and would like to apologise for this inconvenience.
&quot;The Royal Hospital for Sick Children at Yorkhill is not understaffed and its emergency theatre capacity is appropriate.
&quot;Any suggestion of understaffing at the new children's hospital is also totally wrong.&quot;
