A TRAGIC ex-soldier who fell victim to heroin after leaving the Army was fatally stabbed less than an hour after starting to turn his life around.
Young dad Robbie Morrison, who served his country in Iraq, was on his way back from signing up for rehab when Kristian Nelson attacked him in the street last August.
He tried to run but Nelson’s co-accused Colin Craig tripped him up to stop him getting away.
Nelson then plunged a knife into the back of Robbie’s left thigh, leaving a six-inch wound.
No one knows why he did it, but there are suggestions that Robbie, 31, was attacked because he owed another person money.
Robbie, who had a four-year-old daughter, managed to limp more than 300 yards from the scene of the attack in Wester Hailes, Edinburgh.
A woman passer-by found him sitting on a footpath with blood pouring from a ruptured vein in his leg. She raised the alarm and police followed “an unbroken trail of blood” back to the attack scene outside Nelson’s home in Dumbryden Gardens.
By the time paramedics got to Robbie, his speech was failing. But he managed to tell them he had been stabbed with a big knife.
He was rushed to hospital and had to be resuscitated in the ambulance. He had surgery but died three days later.
Nelson, 37, tried to cover his tracks by claiming he had been in his home when he heard fighting outside.
 

But police found Robbie’s DNA on his jeans and one of his shoes.
Nelson had thrown the knife, and a bloodied jumper, into a canal. He eventually admitted stabbing Robbie but said: “I didn’t mean to kill him.”
 Craig, 46, confessed that he tripped Robbie after Nelson told him to stop him escaping. Both men  were charged with murder but pled guilty yesterday to lesser charges. 
Robbie’s mum Lynn, 60, was at the High Court in Edinburgh to hear jobless Nelson admit the culpable homicide of her only child.
She told police Robbie vowed to go to rehab shortly before he was killed, and described him as “quiet, hardworking and good to his mum”.
 

Crag admitted assault. Both thugs will be sentenced at a later date. Nelson has multiple convictions for assault and Craig has a record for carrying a knife.
David Allan, defending Nelson, told the court: “It is clear a significant prison sentence is inevitable.”
Robbie joined the Army in 2005 and served as an infantryman for six years. He developed a heroin problem after leaving.
Detective Chief Inspector Gary Cunningham said a “senseless, wicked and brutal attack” had cost Robbie his life and forced his family to endure “tremendous anguish”.
He said he hoped the verdicts would give the family some closure.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

