A SCOTS dog whisperer has found an amazing talent - for getting dogs to line up for pictures.
Adam McDowell, 25, who owns Perthshire Pet Services, has worked with dogs his whole life.
And now clients are going barking mad for his ability to line-up and photograph local pooches.
After travelling Europe to learn from top dog trainers, the former Perth Academy pupil took the plunge and set up Perthshire Pet Services.
Having opened two years ago, he hasn’t looked back and has found his talent is popular with dog-owners.
Clients have been stunned to see their dogs posing for photographs alongside a group of other obedient pets.
And it’s led to Adam, a big St Johnstone fan, being tagged Tayside’s dog whisperer on more than one occasion.
“The dogs see me as the pack leader. I’m the one in control.
“I make them listen, and if they don’t, I’ll make them heel and put them back on the lead.
“When I get to an obstacle where I want the dogs up, I’ll call them over individually, one by one.
“And when new dogs are introduced to the pack, they watch and learn from each other.
“People are amazed how I can do it. If they come out with me I can easily show them, but it’s hard to explain.
 

“A few people have been calling me the Tayside dog whisperer. I suppose I would go along with that!
“I get quite a lot of comments about the photos.
“The photography is to benefit the clients so they can see what their dogs have been up to.
“The wonder of the age of technology means I can now show my clients first hand the fun their dogs are having on their walks with photos I upload to my Perthshire Pet Services facebook page.
“I don’t think anyone else does it in the area. That’s why I love doing it.”
 

Client Norrie Gray, 65, uses the service for his two-year-old rottweiler Kira.
He said: “Adam is brilliant with our dog. She has greatly benefited from his knowledge and dog skills.
“She socialises, is much easier to control and now really enjoys her walks.”
So what words of wisdom would Adam offer dog owners across the Big County?
“I would say be calm, assertive, routined and take time to train and socialise your canine companion.
“You have to be patient, persistent and with the right exercise, mental stimulation and positive praise, you should have a well balanced and obedient best friend.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

