THE family of a tragic 11-year-old world champion racing driver have told of their sadness following the horror crash at the weekend. 
Popular Keir Millar was famous in the world of Ministox and won the Ninja Kart Championship in Ipswich last year.
Keir, from a famous stock car racing family, is understood to have been badly injured in a race in Lochgelly, Fife, on Saturday. He was rushed to hospital but died later from his injuries.
NHS Lothian confirmed the death of the youngster in a statement issued on behalf of his family: &quot;We wish to announce that due to the injuries sustained in an accident at the weekend Keir has sadly passed away.
&quot;  We, as a family, request space and time to grieve in private.&quot;
Social media was flooded with tributes from family members and well-wishers for the fun-loving Lockerbie schoolboy, who was known for his bravery and warm personality.
Fellow racers have been asked to paint their bumpers gold as a mark of respect to the tragic youngster.
On Facebook, his brother Brandon said: “My little man taken away from us far too soon.
“I still can’t believe it, you’re my world, you made me so proud and I promise you I will do everything in life for you my little man. Sleep tight my wee Angel, I will see you soon.”
 

Keir, whose father Keith is fondly known as Keith “Mad Max” Millar, often raced against his 14-year-old brother Euan on the track.
Euan is known as Mad Max Junior and Keir was nicknamed Mad Max Junior Junior. After the accident, a website RIP Keir Millar #643 was set up, where scores of tributes were left to the young racer.
The Facebook page of Hardie Race Promotions, who organised the stock car night at the Lochgelly Raceway, reported on Saturday night that Keir had been involved in an accident.
The site was updated with the sad news that he had died from his injuries.
As a mark of respect to Keir, the stock car fixture scheduled at the venue for this Friday has been cancelled.
A Hardie Race Promotions spokesman said: “Keir was a fantastic young man who was always smiling and loved his racing.
“A world champion at the age of 10 years old, Keir demonstrated talent, ability and above all maturity far beyond his years and he will be greatly missed by all at HRP.
“We would like to once again extend our condolences to the Keir’s parents, Sharon and Keith, and to the entire Millar family, who we are all thinking of at this horrific time. There are no words to express the feelings of the entire stock community today and we all stand shoulder to shoulder with you.”

