RICHARD Haugh looks like any other healthy 50-something as he dons his Lycra kit and jumps on his bike .
The father of two has cycled thousands of miles in his fitness quest and loves his active lifestyle.
It’s hard to imagine that two-and-a-half years ago, he was fighting for his life in a high dependency unit after being diagnosed with cancer .
But Richard says that even at his lowest point battling the disease, he felt lucky to be in the fight at all.
After feeling ill and finding blood in a stool sample, initial tests found nothing wrong. But Richard’s life changed when he received a home bowel cancer test in the post.
Richard said: “I was caught by the screening programme.
“It’s a free medical check when you turn 50. I was lucky I didn’t live in England because they don’t do the screening until you are 60. I was very lucky and it’s a big plus point for Scotland.”
 

Richard, 53, from Aberdeen, is a consultant in the oil and gas industry and had been in relatively good health until his diagnosis.
He said: “I was an overweight executive, just living my life and had only been off work once – with flu in 1998.
“I only noticed I was bleeding after I turned 50 last July.
“I’d been to the loo and there was blood when I went to the toilet. The doctor took a stool sample and it came back negative.
“I was going to forget all about it but when the free screening came through I thought I’d just do it. A lot of people chuck the letter in the bin but why wouldn’t you do a free medical check?”
And it was fortunate he did. After Richard sent some samples in the post, the results came back positive.
He was called in for a colonoscopy to Aberdeen Royal Infirmary.
He said: “As I came round they said, ‘We’ve got your results. We’re just waiting for your wife to come back’. It was at that point I knew it was bad.
“They sat us down and told me they couldn’t get past the cancer so couldn’t do a proper colonoscopy. They told me it was a very large tumour. That was October 1, 2012, when my world fell apart.
“The first thing that went through my head was that I wouldn’t see my daughter get married.
“Katie is only 20 and not even engaged but I just didn’t know what would happen next. I thought, ‘I’m going to die soon.’”
Richard contacted his bosses to let them know he was ill and started trying to organise his will and get his finances in order.
He also arranged a private CT scan which confirmed he had stage three cancer.
At that point Richard had no pain and he is convinced his cancer would have gone unnoticed if it hadn’t been for the screening test.
 

He said: “There had been no other bleeds, yet I had stage three cancer. There are only four stages.”
Within weeks, Richard had surgery but the operation had complications.
He said: “I was quite poorly afterwards. For starters, the pre-med wore off and I had to go back up again.
“I was supposed to have keyhole surgery but I had diverticulitis and my bowel was not clearing properly so they decided to do open surgery.
“They removed the lower part of my large intestine with a hemicolectomy and the next thing I knew I was on the high dependency ward.”
An infection caused more concern. Richard said: “They ended up taking all the staples out, leaving my wound open, packing it with perforated pipe and gauze, covering it with sticky cling film and using a vacuum pump to suck out the toxins and promote new skin growth.
“In addition, my bowel stopped working while I was in hospital and I had to have a stomach drain put in a couple of days after.
“I was on morphine and was being given nil by mouth. I felt so weak.
“My wife Sarah was there by my side and she was so wonderful. She got support from the Beating Bowel Cancer charity and also Maggie’s Centre in Aberdeen.”
Richard was in hospital for more than three weeks and although the surgeon had told him the cancer had gone, it was too soon to celebrate.
He said: “I didn’t punch the air and I still haven’t.
“I was pretty wrecked but so happy to be away from the hospital. I had to wait for my wound to heal before starting chemotherapy in the February.
“My chemo was on a three-week rolling programme and I spent the first day in hospital getting it intravenously for four hours, then took oral drugs home with me.
“I got a week to recover then started again. I don’t remember much apart from having tablets and getting up to eat.

“It lasted for three months and my wife was marvellous. She kept everyone going.”
After chemo, his weight had gone up to 15 stone from 121/2 stone.
By June 2013, Richard was well enough to return to work part time.
And although he was warned by nurses not to overdo things, he was determined to change his lifestyle, lose weight and become fitter and healthier.
He said: “I thought cycling was a good way to get fit and make use of the farmlands where I live.
“I bought a mountain bike and a road bike. I cycled 3000 miles in the next 18 months, shedding four and a half stone along the way. The fitter you are, there’s less chance of a reoccurrence.
“When I started I could only cycle a few miles without getting out of breath. I now weigh about 11 stone and after buying various wardrobes, I am now a man in Lycra.”
Richard found the time he spent alone on his bike helped his mental health and the healing process.
He said: “A lot of stress goes through your mind when you are told you have cancer and you think about mortality. I wondered what my wife and kids would do and I had time to process these thoughts.”
Richard believes the experience has left him with a more positive outlook on life as he makes sure every minute counts.
He said: “I’ve got a different approach to work and I’m more considerate and understanding. It’s changed my whole outlook. I have a better relationship with my wife and I plan on retiring earlier than I would have. I value life a lot more. We all should.
“I have tried ice climbing and am going on holiday to Japan soon. I’m also in training for Ride the North, a 190-mile cycle from Inverness to Stonehaven in August.
“I’d like people to know there is life after cancer and there is always hope. In some cases it is terminal but sometimes there is a chance.”

