A SCOTS mum trapped on a mountain in Nepal last night pleaded with the UK Government: “Please save me.”
 Ann Hardie has been stuck at a monastery since the earthquake a week ago. 
There are only three days worth of food and water left for Ann, 11 other tourists and 100 monks who are all stranded in the remote spot in the Himalayas.
All roads to the site have been destroyed by landslides and avalanches, meaning their only way out is by helicopter.
Calls to the British embassy in Kathmandu have gone &shy;unanswered.
 Speaking to the Record via &shy;satellite phone last night, Ann, 47, from Kirkcaldy, said: “It’s now critical. We need help – please ask the British Government to send over some more helicopters. 
“We’re scared and just want to get home.”

Mum-of-two Ann, a former wedding dress designer, arrived at the Nubri Monastery two weeks ago to trek and study Buddhism.
She was hiking near the epicentre just a day before the quake struck last Saturday.
Her group includes fellow Scot Stephen Mulhern, who runs the Lendrick Lodge spiritual retreat in Callander, Stirlingshire. He said: “It’s like a war zone and there doesn’t seem to be enough &shy;international aid coming in to help the people of Nepal.”
Ann told last night how two helicopters from the US embassy airlifted five of their own citizens but refused to help the rest.
She said: “All the roads to the monastery are blocked. The &shy;choppers were meant to come two days ago but they never arrived.
“We’ve just been left here, totally stranded, trying to get home. The American embassy sent two &shy;helicopters and lifted the five Americans that were here and just left everybody else behind.
“They had said us Brits would be a priority as well but as soon as they arrived, they weren’t &shy;interested and left us behind.”
Ann claimed the American crew even refused to take a sick 63-year-old Englishwoman.

She added: “We can’t make international calls, we have no communication, we have no heating, electricity or water supplies of any consequence. The food situation is that all the stuff we brought with us is gone.
“We’re now using the &shy;monastery food but with over 100 people here, we’ve only got around three days worth left.”
 Ann’s sons Graeme and Wayne, also from Kirkcaldy, heard from their mum for the first time yesterday afternoon. 
Graeme, 26, said: “I phoned the British embassy and they said they can’t do anything.
“They said they’re not priority or a severe case because there’s no one seriously injured. They’re bottom of the list.”
Asked about Ann and Stephen, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office said: “Our teams are working round the clock to assist British nationals.
“They have given practical assistance to more than 350 so far and arranged flights out of Nepal for around 140.
“Helicopter airlifts continue to assist Brits in remote areas.”
  Scots climber caught up in Nepal earthquake horror tells how mountain shook as avalanche battered down round about them 
 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

