POLICE Scotland are investigating four celebrities over child abuse allegations.
The force have launched almost 60 historic child abuse investigations in the last two years.
For the first time yesterday, they said 110 suspects are on their radar including 37 “persons of public prominence”.
And of that number, four come from the world of TV, film or radio.
Detectives have also identified 45 educational, social care, faith-based, leisure and health premises where victims are alleged to have been targeted.
The surge in cases has been blamed on the Jimmy Savile scandal which broke in 2012 and exposed the late TV star as one of Britain’s most prolific sexual predators.
Operation Hydrant, a new police coordinating hub, was set up last summer.
It does not conduct investigations but gathers information involving well-known figures and organisations such as hospitals, children’s homes and Parliament.
UK-wide, Operation Hydrant has identified 1433 suspects including 261 men of prominence.
Of these, 135 come from the world of TV, film or radio, 76 are politicians, 43 are from the music industry and seven are from sport.
By the end of the year, the number of reports is expected to reach 116,000 – a staggering 71 per cent increase on 2012.
Stars convicted in recent years include Rolf Harris and Stuart Hall.
Police Scotland Assistant Chief Constable Malcolm Graham said co-operation between UK police forces was already paying dividends.
He added: “We have a number of investigations ongoing which it would be wrong to comment on at this stage.
“But we are liaising with police forces elsewhere in the UK on a number of inquiries at present.
 “Children are particularly vulnerable to harm and therefore one of our highest priorities has to  be protecting them. Prevention, intervention and investigation of child abuse in all its many forms have been our priorities, working in partnership with other agencies. 
“Police Scotland will remain committed to treating all victims of sexual abuse, regardless of the passage of time, with sensitivity and respect.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

