THE fiancee of a Scots security guard murdered by a colleague in Iraq has vowed to stop the gunman coming home to serve his sentence.
 Danny Fitzsimons is serving 20 years in Baghdad for killing Paul McGuigan and Australian Darren Hoare, both 37, just 36 hours after he arrived in the city to work. 
 A coroner in Britain yesterday ruled that former Royal Marine Paul, from Peebles, was unlawfully killed . 
And Paul’s fiancee Nicci Prestage, 41, said: “The verdict couldn’t have been anything else. There’s little solace to be found. It doesn’t change the fact Paul is dead.
“Now my priority is to make sure Fitzsimons is forced to stay in Iraq and serve the full sentence there.
“If he gets out, he’ll kill again. He’s a psychopath who doesn’t care who he murders.”
Ex-Para Fitzsimons, 34, murdered Paul and Darren in a drunken rage in 2009. He shot both men three times with a 9mm Glock pistol.
Security firm ArmorGroup, owned by G4S, hired him and gave him weapons without vetting him properly. If they had, they would have learned he was on bail for a string of offences including assaults, robbery and possessing ammunition.
 

The inquest heard steroid user Fitzsimons was being dealt with by the Probation Service but there were “significant missed opportunities” to assess and supervise him properly.
The killer held extreme racist views and was obsessed with football hooliganism and guns. Police who searched his home found that he had written: “I have lived a life of violence. Any chance I have to do someone, I will take it.”
He also claimed he was the Antichrist and had to satisfy his “blood lust”.
 

Supporters of Fitzsimons claim he has post traumatic stress disorder from his Army service. They want him brought home to finish his sentence, passed in 2011, in a British jail.
Paul left a 10-year-old son and an unborn daughter he never saw. Nicci was pregnant with little Elsi-Mae, now five, at the time of the murders.
Nicci said: “I am very honest with Elsi-Mae about the fact that a nasty man killed her daddy in Iraq.
“She thinks Paul went to the moon and she thinks he lives there.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

