A SAVVY student has created a creepy crawly cooker kit to encourage people to eat insects as part of their daily diet.
Courtney Yule designed the Entopod after realising that beetles, caterpillars and grasshoppers can be made into tasty, high-protein treats.
The 22-year-old was inspired by studies showing that eating insects is the most sustainable way to feed the growing global population – despite the yuck factor.
The portable tool includes a grinder to turn insects into flour for use inside cakes or protein shakes.
Peckish punters can even turn the portable device into a fondue kit by placing a candle under the leg stands and using eating utensils as skewers.
Courtney said: “The main barrier is getting consumers to accept the idea of eating insects.
“Before I began this work I didn’t even like to touch them but I don’t have any problem with eating them now and it is a practice which is growing in popularity every day.
“People think nothing about eating prawns and shrimps but they have a different reaction to grasshoppers and crickets.
“The more you read about the health benefits, the less bothered you become. You can do anything with insects – sweet and sour grasshopper, mealworm macaroni, lime and ginger locusts or cricket cookies.”
 

Courtney, of Berwick-upon-Tweed, who studies at Edinburgh Napier University, added: “A lot of people are now supplying dried insects but I have not seen any other products which help in preparing them to eat.
“I am now at the stage of tweaking design components.
“After the degree show, I will be taking it down to the New Designers show in London in July.”
 Ingredients: 
1 tbsp olive oil
1 tbsp cumin seeds
2 Measuring cups of cooked Puy lentils
1/2 Measuring cup of red onion, finely sliced
Lemon, juiced
Large handful mint leaves, roughly chopped
1/2 Measuring cup of feta cheese, crumbled
1/2 Measuring cup of beetroot chunks
1 Medium sized scorpion
 Method: 
1. Gently heat the lentils with the onion, lemon juice, oil and some salt and pepper.
 2. Toss the dressed  lentils with mint and beetroot chunks, scatter with feta. 
3. Serve with a side of scorpion and enjoy or keep in the containers for later.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

