A NEIGHBOURHOOD hero rushed from her home to help an unconscious girl of 16 suspected of taking a legal high – then got charged by police.
Grace Bell was so angry after the terrifying incident outside her house that she phoned a local shop which sells legal highs and tore strips off the man who answered.
Then, to her horror, she was arrested and charged under the Communications Act.
Grace, 46, admits she told the man she would bomb the shop but says it was in the heat of the moment.
And her friends and neighbours in Camelon, Falkirk, believe she’s a victim of rough justice. They’ve started a fighting fund to help her with her case.
Jamie Donnelly, 25, died last week after reportedly taking a legal high in Falkirk.
 

One local said: “Grace did a good thing. She helped save the girl’s life and it’s unfair she’s the one going to court.”
Grace, 46, said she was at home last Sunday night when a teenager knocked on her door and asked for a glass of water.
She recalled: “I asked what the water was for and looked over. There was this girl surrounded by her friends sitting with her back against the fence. She was blue and could hardly breathe.
“She keeled over and I put her in the recovery position and handed my phone to someone and asked them to call 999.
“I knew she had taken something and kept asking the kids what it was. They said a legal high and I said someone needed to call the police. I expected them to come with the ambulance but they didn’t.
“It was awful, she had vomit coming out of her nose and couldn’t breathe. It’s one of the worst things I’ve seen in my life.
 

“I found out who sold the legal high and called them. I just wanted to speak to the owner but the person on the phone was ranting at me and yes, I lost my temper.
 “I said something stupid that I didn’t mean because he kept saying it wasn’t  his fault. I told him I was going to bomb his shop and he called the police. 
“It was spur of the moment – I don’t remember even saying it. I was just so angry and upset.
“I’m totally anti-drug, and after seeing what a legal high can do I can’t understand why they aren’t banned.

“The little girl is fine, she’s sore and recovering and she’s learned her lesson.
“I’m angry that I saved her life and I’m the one who get’s charged, but I understand the police position. I said something I shouldn’t have but I’d do it all again.”
Grace’s neighbour said: “She maybe shouldn’t have said it but everyone is angry and emotional right now.
“She’s popular around here and helps everyone, but she’s a hothead.”
 

The manager of the shop, Vapour Monster, denied that they sell legal highs, but our reporter watched staff openly sell a packet to a customer. Police confirmed a 46-year-old woman had been charged.
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

