NEVER underestimate the power of a smiley face. Today, as thousands leave Murrayfield for  the 26-mile Kiltwalk through Edinburgh, I must tell you about the motivational qualities of a friendly coupon.
 A few weeks ago my friends and I completed  the Glasgow Kiltwalk. 
With typical Scottish weather, we endured rain, freezing wind,  then glorious sunshine from Hampden to  Loch Lomond.
Two years ago, I started at 8am and finished at 3.30pm.
This year we left at 9am and didn’t get in until 6pm. That was nine hours walking without a break as we munched on the hoof.
I’m certain the slower time was due to the volume of people taking part rather that me getting older and doddery.
From Glasgow Yoker we were miserable as the rain lashed down relentlessly with 6000 people  in soggy kilts and plastic ponchos all secretly wondering why they’d signed up for this torture.
At Glasgow Green, there were only THREE people to cheer on the masses, a young couple with a baby cocooned in a fabulous watertight pram. As they clapped us along, we all smiled  and felt a little proud. Yes, it was miserable but we were fundraising for little babies like our young supporter and Scotland’s sick children.
 When the sun emerged, from Clydebank onwards, it became fun. Walking with my pals Trish, Debbie and Alyson, we covered every topic known to man before our ritual Kiltwalk game  of ‘snog, marry, shove off a cliff’. 
By Dumbarton, about the 18-mile mark, we were beginning to tire. This is where smiley faces and random acts of kindness saved the day.
One lady set up tables with jugs of juice and cakes for the walkers. She had no connection  to anyone involved, just a lovely gesture.
My heart melted about a mile further on when  a kindly elderly gentlemen, probably in his 80s, came out of his flat with a biscuit tin full of jelly babies and sweeties for walkers.
“I thought you might need a wee boost,” he smiled as we pinched the red ones and marched on. I’ll not lie, from the 22-mile marker to the finishing line, it hurt. Toes, feet, knees, hip  joints, pretty much everything was throbbing,  but when we approached Balloch and were clapped for the final mile I nearly cried.
 During the Commonwealth Games , I stood  in the rain cheering on the marathon runners wondering if it helped them. It does. 
Every handmade banner, T-shirt or cluster  of cheering randoms made us all feel 100ft tall.
With about 500m to go, our other lifelong pal Denise shouted out from the crowd. She’d taken her family there to support us as a surprise. This nearly ended me emotionally.
The final corner was incredible. People we didn’t know were high-fiving us as we headed towards the finish line. The cheers lifted us  and we group-hugged at the end.
There are thousands of charity walks, hikes, runs and cycles throughout Scotland every  year. If you do find yourself near one, please clap and smile at the participants, they need it and appreciate it more that you will ever realise.
So good luck Edinburgh Kiltwalkers today,  in three weeks, you will be back to normal...

