A MURDER plot accused told a cellmate he hated ex-Loyalist paramilitary boss Johnny “Mad Dog” Adair and talked of shooting him, a court heard yesterday.
Edward McVeigh, 27, shared a cell with Antoin Duffy – also known as Anton – at Castle Huntly open prison near Dundee and was also at Shotts jail in Lanarkshire when Duffy was there.
He told the High Court in Glasgow that Duffy was a Republican sympathiser who claimed he was a member of the Real IRA.
Prosecutor Paul Kearney asked McVeigh: “How often did you discuss the possibility of taking out Johnny Adair with Antoin Duffy?” He replied: “I’m not sure. Every couple of days.”
He was then asked about Duffy’s attitude towards Adair.
McVeigh said: “He didn’t like him. He hated him because of who he is and because of what he’s done in Northern Ireland. He’s responsible for a lot of murders. They murdered innocent Catholics and claimed they were political targets.”
Kearney asked where the alleged shooting of Adair was to take place and was told by McVeigh: “Either the golf course where he walked his dog early in the morning or at the gym where he trained.”
 Kearney asked: “What discussion was there about what weapon was going to be used?” McVeigh  replied: “The big fella.” 
He told the jury he had asked Duffy what he meant and was allegedly told it was a Kalashnikov rifle.
McVeigh was asked where the information about Adair’s movements had come from and replied: “Piddy Gorman I think was the name.”
Kearney then asked: “Who did Mr Duffy say would do the actual shooting of Mr Adair?”
McVeigh said: “Himself and it could possibly have been myself or Paul Sands.”
The court heard that McVeigh – from Lisburn, Northern Ireland, whose family are mainly Loyalist supporters – converted to Roman Catholicism and was baptised at Castle Huntly.
Duffy was his godfather.
McVeigh was giving evidence at the trial of Duffy, 39, Martin Hughes, 36, Paul Sands, 31, and John Gorman, 58 , who deny conspiring to murder Adair and Sam “Skelly” McCrory.
Three other men – Craig Convery, 37, Gary Convery, 34, and Gordon Brown, 29 – deny organised crime charges.
 Adair and McCrory were once high profile figures in the Loyalist organisation the Ulster Defence  Association. 
Both men have lived in Ayrshire for a number of years.
 It is also claimed Duffy and Gorman were part of a plan to murder the governor of Barlinnie  jail, Derek McGill, in a car bomb attack. 
McVeigh told the jury: “I walked into the cell and they were talking about information about the car he was driving and where he played five-a-side football.”
He added: “There was discussion about a possible bomb but they didn’t want innocent children or other people getting hurt.”
He claimed that a gun was then talked about.
There were alleged discussions between Duffy and McVeigh about shooting prison officers outside Addiewell jail in West Lothian.
And the court heard that Duffy was abusing Tramadol painkillers.
Under cross-examination by Derek Ogg QC, defending Duffy, McVeigh – who was convicted of drug dealing – admitted he and Duffy were addicted to Tramadol while serving time, adding: “I was taking up to 30 tablets a day and Antoin was taking double that.”
Ogg said: “If you were affected by this drug, you wouldn’t know who had been in you cell and what they had said.” McVeigh replied: “It depends how many you have taken that day.”
All accused deny the charges against them. The trial continues.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

