AN INVESTIGATION has been launched after a surgeon allegedly used a ‘rusty hacksaw’ to amputate a patient’s leg.
Senior management at Ayr Hospital were alerted by shocked theatre staff who witnessed the procedure.
The incident began during a routine operation to remove an elderly patient’s leg, when the surgeon unexpectedly found a metal plate in the limb.
Incredibly, medics were unable to find the equipment they needed to remove the plate, so a member of the surgical team was dispatched to the local B&amp;Q store to buy a saw, it was reported in the Mail on Sunday.
But because it was after 9pm when the operation was being carried out, the store was closed, so they had to return empty-handed.
While the patient was still under anesthetic, the operation was stopped to allow the medical team to discuss their options.
Someone then found a hacksaw in a cupboard of old stock in the hospital, and the procedure was resumed using the implement as a ‘last resort’ to remove the plate.
The saw was disinfected before being used, but the operation was witnessed by staff including the theatre sister, and anaesthetists who then raised concerns with senior management.
A source at the hospital said: “Once the surgeon discovered the metal plate in the man’s leg, he found he didn’t have the tools to continue with the procedure.
“As B&amp;Q was shut, the decision was taken to use a saw which was found in the old store cupboard.
“It was sterilised before being used, but highly skilled surgeons in Scotland in 2015 shouldn’t find themselves in the middle of an operation without the proper equipment.”
Scottish Tory health spokesman, Carlaw Jackson, said: “This is simply incredible - an indescribable way to treat a patient.
“Despite the UK’s advancement in modern medicine this episode has all the finesse of impoverished surgery on Nelson’s flagship during the Battle of Trafalgar.
“I would hope that NHS Ayrshire and Arran thoroughly investigates this as a matter of urgency.”
Ann Gow, Interim Nurse Director at the Healthboard, confirmed an investigation was underway.
The probe is expected to focus on why the metal plate wasn’t flagged up ahead of the operation, as opposed to criticising the impromptu surgical technique.
Ms Gow said: “NHS Ayrshire &amp; Arran is currently conducting a significant adverse event review (SAER) into a recent incident within University Hospital Ayr where standard procedures were not followed.
“The findings of this review and any subsequent recommendations will be shared with clinicians, as well as the family of the patient.”
The victim and his family have been told.
 Try your hand at our news quiz 

