ONE teacher was off sick for three years because of stress as figures show anxiety is leading to soaring illness rates in Scotland’s &shy;classrooms.
Teachers in Scottish schools are suffering record levels of stress with an almost 25 per cent increase in those signed off sick since 2011.
A total of 6182 staff have been absent due to stress-related &shy;illnesses including anxiety and depression – 12 per cent of a total roll of 50,824.
The figure is likely to be even higher as some local authorities only provided figures to the end of last year.
The official statistics include one teacher in Renfrewshire, one of the country’s largest education authorities, who was off from June 2009 to March 2012.
A total of 374 staff were signed off within the authority, with the figures rising from 78 in 2011 to 82 in 2014.
The figures come days after unions warned teachers must not become scapegoats for &shy;problems in Scotland’s &shy;education system.
Studies have shown falls in literacy and numeracy skills and the new Curriculum for &shy;Excellence has endured a rocky introduction.
First Minister Nicola Sturgeon admitted last week that Scottish education was “not good enough” but unions claim increased demands on teachers are causing additional stress, resulting in a sharp rise in sick leave.
EIS assistant secretary Drew Morrice said: “There are &shy;significant increased demands arising from curricular changes and the burgeoning bureaucracy in schools.
“A recent survey by the EIS showed teachers are &shy;working an average of 46.5 hours per week – 11.5 hours more than the &shy;contractual requirement of 35 hours – and this represents a &shy;worsening of the workload &shy;burden in recent years.
“A worn down, over-burdened, stressed-out teacher is not the hallmark of an excellent &shy;education system.”
Jane Peckham of NASUWT said: “Teachers have had to &shy;contend with major reforms to the curriculum and &shy;qualifications systems and have pulled out all the stops to ensure that high educational standards were maintained.
“However, we know that in too many cases schools and local authorities are not taking the necessary steps to address unnecessary bureaucracy &shy;associated with these reforms.
“This is driving up teachers’ stress levels and working hours and distracting them from &shy;focusing on the needs of pupils.
“Teachers’ lives are being blighted by stress and their health is suffering. For the benefit of children and young people, this problem must be addressed.”
Liz Smith of the Scottish &shy;Conservatives said: “Teacher workloads are increasing under the SNP Government and this has inevitably led to more &shy;stress-related staff absences.
“It is the consequence of more than 4000 fewer teachers, cuts to support staff and the burden of dealing with the &shy;difficulties of implementing the Curriculum for Excellence and the new exam system.”
A Scottish Government spokesman said: “Education is a vital priority for this &shy;Government.
“We are working with teachers’ representatives, local authorities and other partners to ensure teacher workload is balanced and they have the freedom they need to carry on delivering our world-class curriculum.
“We safeguarded posts for the next year by providing &shy;&pound;51million additional funding to local authorities to maintain teacher numbers to meet our aim of &shy;having the right number with the right skills in all our schools.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

