A SCOTTISH swimmer was lost for words when she found a bag of human ashes washed up on an island beach.
Morag Paterson was ready to head out into the North Sea for a dip when she spotted the polythene bag on Nairn's East Beach.
The bag was sealed with a metal ID tag attached to it, so Morag set out to solve the mystery of who the ashes belonged to and how they came to wash up on a Scottish beach.
And, after a fascinating fact-finding mission, she's established that the ashes were in fact the remains of a former US Marine , originally from Nairn.
Morag managed to contact the family, via a metal ID tag which led her to a crematorium in Michigan, US.
She believes relatives brought his ashes home, but still can't explain how the sealed bag ended up in the sea.
 

Morag said: &quot;I was down at the East Beach, about to take the usual dip in the sea, and there, right in front of me, was a smallish, solid looking polythene bag.
&quot;It had a silver tag attached to a wire closure.&quot;
On closer inspection Morag saw it was a bag of ashes - and it had a round metal tag with Central Michigan Crematory Battle Creek MI' printed on it and an identification number.
It was enough to make curious Morag turn detective to try to trace the source of the unusual package.
She took the bag home for safe keeping and sent an email to the US crematorium, writes The Mirror.
The firm sent her message to funeral home staff who then contacted the cremated man's family.
 

Morag wasn't sure if she'd hear back, but was delighted when his relatives got in touch with her to solve the mystery of the ashes on the shore.
The remains are those of Scottish ex-pat Alfred Hopwood, who died aged 96.
He is thought to have been born in Nairn but spent most of his life in America and served as a US Marine during World War Two .
Morag said: &quot;I discovered he'd emigrated aged eight with his parents and sister, first to Canada, and then to the USA.
&quot;He returned to Nairn to visit with his nephew and wife when he was 84 as he had a longing to see Nairn and Scotland again before he died.&quot;
Morag believes a family member brought the ashes to Scotland so they could be scattered in his homeland.
 

The bag is thought to have been dropped into the waters of the Moray Firth, close to where the man grew up.
It was only when Morag contacted the crematorium in the US that relatives found out it had washed ashore.
Morag said: &quot;The plan was to deposit the ashes at a cemetery or crematorium here, but this apparently was not possible and so the bag was dropped into the Moray Firth at Nairn.&quot;
She is in close contact with a member of Harold's family and has discussed the possibility of meeting up with relatives to hold a small ceremony where some of the ashes could be properly scattered or laid to rest near Nairn.
In the meantime, she has vowed to look after the ashes until the family decide what they want to do.
Morag said: &quot;I have learned that he loved swans and the water and lived on the riverside right where the swans gather, so it is rather lovely that he has returned here and could now be laid to rest once more in the river flowing to the sea, by the swans.&quot;
Try our quick news quiz below:

