SCORES of shipbuilders in Govan are being sacked and told there will be no jobs for them at Rosyth, despite the &pound;6.2billion aircraft carriers project supposed to provide years of work in Scotland.
The latest revelations come after the Record told how pipe fitters and welders at Rosyth are being laid off at a time when many foreign workers are being taken on at reduced rates.
It has emerged that around 60 electricians who have worked on sections of the MoD aircraft carriers at BAE Systems’ yard at Govan are working notice periods after work dried up.
More than a dozen workers contacted the Record to express fury at the lack of quality shipbuilding jobs in Scotland at a time when there should be full employment. They believe that cut price contracts, exploiting workers from Romania and Poland, are blocking Scots from taking jobs on the project, which is scheduled to last for five more years.
One worker, employed by Swedish insulation firm Callenberg, said he was among eight to be told last week he was being made redundant.
He said: “We have said that we are willing to go to Rosyth but we were told there are no openings there.
“That is a load of rubbish because I know from people who work there that they are starting European workers all the time.
“It is beyond a joke. They have taken on so many foreign workers that there is barely a job left for Scottish workers, who are lining up at the dole.
“They might as well have awarded the contract to yards in Romania or Poland for all the good this contract is doing for the likes of me.” 
Another worker said a meeting would be held at Govan today for workers to appeal the decision to make them redundant.
He said: “We were quite resigned to our fate but the story in the Record gives us reason to be a little bit less pessimistic.
“It’s a disgrace we are being excluded from any work opportunities at Rosyth.”
The Record revealed that Poles hired for the carriers project face gruelling 67-hours-a-week shift patterns but take home 32 per cent less pay than many Scots doing the same job.
And Romanian pipefitters, who work 58 hours a week, are clearing less than &pound;2000 a month, while Brits on the same job take home more than &pound;3000.
 

Unions at Rosyth fear skilled Scots shipbuilders are being denied jobs because they earn more than their counterparts from overseas.
Pat Rafferty, Scottish secretary of Unite, has called for an investigation into the cheap labour claims.
He said the Record’s investigation had brought into the open a situation that needs to be urgently addressed.
Rafferty said he will contact Aircraft Carrier Alliance bosses to demand an inquiry into the pay and conditions of foreign workers and the claims that Scottish workers are being denied jobs on the project. He said: “The information emerging about different rates of pay is alarming.
“It seems clear that the people who pay the price are the migrant workers and the indigenous workers who are being denied the opportunity of employment.”
Douglas Chapman, the new MP for Dunfermline and West Fife, said: “I plan to meet with unions and management as soon as meetings can be set up.
“We cannot have Scottish workers being sold down the river especially on the back of a UK Government defence contract.”
The Aircraft Carrier Alliance, made up of the Ministry of Defence and engineering companies Babcock, BAE and Thales UK, deny that the wages being paid to the foreign workers are unlawful.
Work on the two carriers, HMS Queen Elizabeth and HMS Prince of Wales, began in 2009.
They were built in sections at yards around the UK before being put together at Rosyth.
