WARNINGS about the state of Scotland’s newest hospital should make for deeply worrying reading to patients and health bosses.
The new South Glasgow Hospital is supposed to be a shining jewel in the NHS crown.
But if the initial reports are to be taken at face value, there is a lot of work to do.
Remember, this isn’t any old infrastructure project where a slipped deadline or planning hold-up can be absorbed easily.
This is a mega-sized hospital catering for the country’s largest city.
Doctors say the hospital is in meltdown. And it’s not even fully operational yet.
Trolleys are lined up in corridors, with patients waiting on the floor. Waiting times in A&amp;E are too long.
Teething problems? These sound like major headaches.
One distraught woman said the hospital was like a war zone when she took her elderly mum for help. The visit took hours. Nurses couldn’t find everything they needed.
Ambulance drivers were having to queue for hours just to hand over their patients.
Nurses and doctors can only work with what they are given.
That’s why it is of utmost importance that the health board and Government prove that these really are short-term problems.
An enormous amount of money has been sunk into this project.
The Health Secretary has enough on her plate with all the other problems in the NHS.
Urgent work to make the new South Glasgow Hospital function properly must not be pushed to one side.
Patients and health professionals need urgent assurances that this huge transfer of hospital provision is worth the effort.
 It’s a fine line 
Councils have a duty to make sure their parking rules are enforced.
But a record &pound;73million windfall in charges and penalties suggests something a little more underhand is going on.
Scotland’s councils raked in a massive &pound;33.6million profit.
It’s no wonder drivers are irate, particularly in Edinburgh, where the biggest profit was made at &pound;15.3million.
The RAC are right to question whether councils are being entirely clear about their policies.
Motorists shouldn’t be used as cash cows for local authorities to plug holes in their budgets.
 Life lessons 
NICOLA Sturgeon knows better than most the importance of a good education.
The First Minister credits her time at school and university with giving her the tools and confidence to rise through the political ranks.
It is up to her Government to ensure all Scots children are given the best start in life, whatever their background.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

