A 'fairytale' mansion once home to Mary Queen of Scots has gone on the market for &pound;1.8 million.
The 24-year-old monarch stayed at Cowdenknowes in October 1566, just a year before she was forced off the throne.
Mary's stay at the stunning Berwickshire estate is recorded in documents which have survived the last 450 years.
 Two years after the visit she was imprisoned by her cousin Queen Elizabeth, where she remained for the following 18 years until her execution in 1587 . 
The site dates back as far as the 12th century and was once a stronghold of the Douglas clan, one of Scotland's most powerful families in the Middle Ages.
The area even has a medieval ballad written about it, The Broom o' Cowdenknowes, about a young shepherdess who falls in love with a stranger on horseback who rides past her every day.
The earliest part of the existing house is the East Tower, which dates from 1554, but was altered in 1883 to form the main entrance.
 

Most of the grand manor house was built in 1574 by Sir James Home, who was Warden of the East Marches, responsible for security between the area's borders with England, with some refurbishments and additions made my later owners throughout the 18th and 19th century.
The grand house sits on the bank of the River Leader in a sought-after rural area near Melrose and Earlston.
It has traditional features including stone stairs, wood panelling on the walls, stained glass windows and ornate fireplaces.
The house has seven bedrooms, six bathrooms and four reception rooms, as well as a tower room, gym, library, wine cellar and even a rod room to go with the house's trout fishing rights.
It comes with 45 acres and has a coach house on the land as well as an American barn, a tennis court with pavilion and woodland.
Cowdenknowes is now up for sale with estate agents Knight Frank for &pound;1,775,000.
 

James Denne from Knight Frank said: &quot;The house has such a long and varied history. It's not quite a castle but it's a sort of fairytale house.
&quot;Much folklore surrounds Cowdenknowes, mostly fictitious, but that Mary Queen of Scots stayed here on her way to Jedburgh is recorded.
&quot;And the famous medieval ballad The Broom o' Cowdenknowes is based on the broom flower, which having covered the Black Hill for centuries, virtually died out in 1852.
&quot;The broom is now making a comeback on Cowdenknowes' rich volcanic clay.
&quot;Cowdenknowes' complicated past ownership and extraordinary architecture form a tapestry of fascinating glimpses of nearly 800 years of Scottish social history.
&quot;I think the romanticism of living in such an incredible house and being a part of that history and part of Scotland will appeal to buyers.

&quot;The Scottish Borders is a beautiful part of the world and you've got fishing on the Tweed nearby, it's idyllic.
&quot;This house is an ideal family home or it could easily be a great weekend escape for someone based in London or a UK base for someone living overseas.
&quot;The current owners have been here for about nine years but their children have grown up and moved away and it's too big for them now.&quot;
