A DISGRACED teacher is facing a prison sentence after preying on two teenage boys.
Craig Walker, 41, previously admitted engaging in sexual activity with a 15-year-old boy on four occasions in May last year while he was his tutor.
And yesterday, the former teacher at Paisley's St Andrew’s Academy was convicted of indecently assaulting another youth who he “befriended” as part of a social work department programme to bring stability into the lives of troubled teens.
 He was found guilty by a majority verdict on two separate charges relating to that victim, who is  now 26. 
Walker faces a lengthy spell behind bars, with Sheriff Seith Ireland telling him: “These are extremely serious matters and custody is a very likely outcome.”
Giving evidence against him at Paisley Sheriff Court, one of his victims – who is now aged 16 – told the court Walker had taken him for occasional drives in his car and would talk about his own sex life, discussing his activity openly with him.
He would ply him with alcohol from time to time and touched him on his private parts on top of his clothing.
In May last year, when Walker lived in the town’s Don Drive, the level of sexual activity became more serious and took place on four different occasions.
“He approached me,” said the teenager, giving his evidence to the jury from behind protective screens.
“I trusted him and thought he was there to help me.”
MORE PAISLEY NEWS HERE
 

After the boy had given his account, defence agent Gordon Ritchie revealed his client would be pleading guilty to the charge of engaging in sexual activity with the youngster.
The other male, who had been befriended by the accused when he was a vulnerable teenager in care, told how he had been indecently assaulted by Walker after he was released from care between 2006 and 2012.
Walker indecently assaulted him at first when he was 17 years old and, on several occasions over later years, by touching him while he lay asleep in an intoxicated state, removing his clothing and performing a sexual act on him, spanning a period between 2006 and 2012.
That victim said he had come from a difficult background and been placed in care and that social workers had started a scheme for him to meet up with someone who would “be there for me.”
That person was Walker.
Walker, he said, had touched his private parts and that had shocked him so much he ended up in a confused state.
Walker, recently of Blythwood Drive, Paisley, and who now lives in Lochwinnoch with his parents, told the court he had been suicidal when police first quizzed him about the accusations.
Sheriff Seith Ireland deferred sentence until June 22 and called for background reports to be prepared.
He told the accused: “These are extremely serious matters and custody is a very likely outcome.”

