A SCOTS restaurant boss has hit back at a diner who complained after their colleague was cut by a glass dropped by a waitress.
Furious that no discount had been given to the party after the incident last month, the customer took to TripAdvisor to vent their anger.
In a withering response, the owner of Cafe 52 in Aberdeen accused the customer of feeling his backside and having a “twisted sense of reality”, reports the Daily Mail. 
 
Writing on the review site, the customer with the username ‘injured2015’, said: “During a visit last night one of our party was cut by broken glass that a waitress dropped.
“The manage viewed the injury and attended to it however there were no antiseptic wipes available and a plaster requested was taken away from the table before it could be used.
 

“At no time did the manage apologise for this incident nor did he offered any form of recompense at the end of the meal we suggested a gesture of good will but he was reluctant.
“Our colleague was still in some discomfort as we left but was hiding it well.
“We are in the business of training managers and customer service and what we experienced would not have made the grade.”
The hilarious response saw the diner sarcastically praised for a “remarkably creative piece of writing”.
Promising to “clarify the actual situation for curious readers”, Cafe 52 boss Steve Bothwell outlined six points that he claimed had happened during the incident.
 

He wrote: “Your colleague’s leg suffered a 1/2 inch scratch from a broken glass that hit the floor. It’s not usual for a member of the waiting to staff to drop something in the hospitality industry (Wait till they start wearing roller skates).
“Your colleague was tended to immediately and a drum of antiseptic wipes (contents 200) were put on the table and several wipes (better safe than sorry!) were used to treat the wound. Thereafter a clean dry towel with crushed ice was put round the leg of the alleged victim (Just in case the leg swelled up to size of Saturn, resulting in a lunar explosion).
“The alleged victim was offered a choice of plasters, however we were out of “Dose this plaster match my outfit” variety, so it was either skin coloured plasters or those bright blue ones. The skin tone plasters seemed to do the job.”
He continued: “I, yes me made regular appearances at you table and made sure the leg wasn’t going to drop off and there wasn’t a sea of blood flowing down the middle of the restaurant and to check if you were enjoying your meal and given that your collective faces were smiling from ear to ear I took that as a yes.
“All is well.
“I revisited your table about 15 minutes before you were going to leave and the vino had made it’s bed in your head. At which point you started feeling my back side.
“And that is how it went.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

