A &pound;50,000 CASH machine raid is feared to be linked to a hole-in-the-wall gang of robbers behind a recent bombing blitz on banks.
Police Scotland confirmed yesterday that chemicals were used to cause an explosion that blasted an ATM apart in a sleepy village in Lanarkshire.
It’s thought the robbers scooped out the Royal Bank of Scotland cash machine on the outskirts of Lesmahagow days before the “audacious” robbery early on Sunday.
And detectives say they haven’t ruled out a link to notorious fugitives thought to be behind three similar raids in north-east Scotland this year.
Police believed the raids were the handiwork of a gang led by on-the-run thieves Adam Murphy and Andrew White.
Both men, from Merseyside, are the last robbers at large of a nine-strong gang who raided 31 ATMs across the UK.
Yesterday, police said they could not confirm or rule out a link to the latest robbery in Abbeygreen, Lesmahagow.
 

Detective Inspector John Lamb said: “The bank is in a quiet village but is surrounded by a small number of homes.
“There would have been noise from any vehicles involved and indeed from the break in.
“Did you hear a loud bang around 4am yesterday morning or did you see a car travelling at speed from the bank at that time?
“It was a rather audacious robbery. It would have needed a bit of planning and more than one person to carry it out.
“Therefore, I think that those responsible would have had to have been in the area maybe in the days before the robbery.
“If you saw someone in or around that bank that you thought a bit suspicious or you didn’t recognise, then please get in touch.
“This is also the same for any vehicles that may have been in the area that were out of place.
“It might seem insignificant to you but may be significant to our enquiries.”
A police spokeswoman added: “We can confirm the use of chemicals which cause an explosion. The machine wasn’t rammed.”
 

Detectives are looking for links with three similar robberies in January.
Raiders ripped out ATMs from an RS McColl at Byron Square, Aberdeen, and a Morrisons supermarket in Banchory, Aberdeenshire.
The same gang then used explosive gas to blast open an RBS money unit in Kirriemuir, Angus – escaping with &pound;100,000.
All the attacks happened between January 18 and 21. Police have made no arrests.
Mugshots of on-the-run thieves Adam Murphy and Andrew White have already been issued in a bid to track them down.
Murphy, 29, is suspected of stealing &pound;800,000 and is believed to be hiding in Scotland after he fled Merseyside.
White jumped bail and is also on the run. Detectives believe he may be in Spain. He was held in Spain last year before fleeing bail.
In January, the Record reported Police Scotland are working with colleagues in Merseyside Police to run down the pair after the north-east raids.
Last year, seven members of Murphy’s gang were sentenced to a combined total of 114 years in jail over a string of ATM robberies in England.
 

 

Jonathon Webb and Daniel Morgan were jailed for a total of 32 years after being found guilty at Liverpool Crown Court.
Cohorts Thomas Whittingham, Anthony Bushell, Craig Cartwright, Kurt Beddoes and Ian Ellis were sentenced to a total of 82 years after being convicted for the same series of thefts and attempted thefts.
All seven were part of a group responsible for ATM attacks at 28 premises – including banks, post offices and supermarkets – in Cheshire, Lancashire, Leicestershire, Gloucestershire, Warwickshire, Northamptonshire and Derbyshire.
The thieves netted about &pound;800,000 with more than &pound;480,000 of damage to properties.
As part of the robbery, the criminals pumped gas into two holes found on each ATM. The gas was then detonated, forcing open a large hinged door.
Thieves then forced their way into the building to ransack the gaping rear of the cash machine.
It’s understood the gang use the chemical compound acetylene in their raid.
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

