SCOTS sprinting legend Allan Wells has furiously denied rumours he is a drugs cheat.
The 63-year-old, who won Olympic gold at the 1980 Games in Moscow, has spoken out after it emerged he is being investigated by a BBC Scotland documentary team.
Wells has long denied claims he took performance enhancing substances during his glittering career.
And in a statement issued through his lawyer he said: “Once again I find myself having to publicly deny these false and malicious rumours regarding doping that threaten to do untold damage to my reputation.
 

“These allegations go back more than 20 years and have resurfaced at regular intervals during that period.
“A simple Google search documents the nature of the claims made against me.
“I strenuously denied any involvement in doping at that time and I will continue to do so.”
Wells won the 4x100m relay at the Edmonton Commonwealth Games in 1978 in a team that included two athletes who later admitted doping.
David Jenkins said he took drugs during competition in the 1970s and was sentenced to a seven-year term in jail for his part in steroid smuggling into America.
 

Drew McMaster meanwhile also admitted using drugs during competitions, and has previously made doping allegations against Cameron Sharp and Wells, who made up the relay team.
McMaster also accused coach Frank Dick and team doctor, James Ledingham, of being involved in doping.
Wells added: “Some of my contemporaries within the athletics team have been discredited by their own involvement in drug use.
“We won 4x100m relay gold for Scotland at the 1978 Commonwealth Games but that medal will be forever tarnished in my mind by the admissions of McMaster and Jenkins.
“However, I can look back with substantial pride on my individual achievements.
“None of these medals were achieved with the aid of illegal performance-enhancing substances.
“Training, exceptional coaching and a dedication and desire to win were my only driving forces.
“It is sad that these assertions continue to be made and given credence by BBC Scotland, especially since neither Dr Ledingham nor Cameron are able to address them in the manner I am able to.
“The matter of drug abuse in the 1970s and early 1980s was addressed by an independent inquiry set up in 1987.
“I have gone on record to outline my stance against drug cheats in athletics and have continued to do so since my retirement. That stance has not changed one bit.
“I experienced pressure throughout my career and these allegations are just another part of dealing with those who seek to denigrate my achievements as well as the reputation of others within the sport.
“I withstood pressure from government to withdraw from the Moscow 1980 Olympics and went on to win 100m gold.
“The pressure I am now under is deeply regrettable for me and my family but I will withstand it and continue to make the false nature of these claims known.”
 Try your hand at our news quiz 

