SCOTLAND internationalist Siobhan Hunter has expressed her delight at lifting a national seven-a-side trophy alongside her college teammates.
The Edinburgh College women’s captain helped lead her side to Scottish Student Sports (SSS) national cup glory last month after beating Dundee and Angus in the final.
Hunter has witnessed first-hand the amount of hard work and dedication her colleague have put in over the past season.
And, she has made it clear she is over the moon to see them all get rewarded with a major trophy.
She said: “It felt great to win a national title, but it felt even better to lift the trophy alongside such a great group of players.
“This tournament is very well run and the fact it is such a unique competition that only comes around once a year means it’s one we are always aim to win.
“The girls worked extremely hard in the lead up to the tournament as well as during it and to win the whole thing is just amazing, I am just so happy for everyone involved.”
The Hibernian Ladies ace insists she is extremely happy with how this season has played out.
However, she has revealed that she is now focused on bigger and better next season both on and off the field.
She said: “This season went very well as we have continually played well through-out all our games.
“On a personal level it’s been great for me as I have struggled with game time at my club as I'm am currently recovering from an injury.
“So playing with the college side has really helped me get back to my best and I am now looking to push on.
“I want to progressing with Hibernian Ladies and keep knocking at the door of the internationally set up.
“I have been out so long injured that other players have done well to take their opportunity.
“And, I feel I need to prove myself within the National set up once again, it’s going to take a lot of hard work but I am sure I can do it.
“Off the park I want to really focus on my education, I have applied for Napier University and received a conditional offer to complete third year and get a degree.
“It’s a huge opportunity for me, my aim is to work hard again and get the two As that I need for the conditional.
 Try our sports quiz below: 

