IT may not be the most conventional birthday party but Ann Nimmo will be celebrating.
She’s got a cake and is planning to have a small get-together with friends to mark living with HIV for 30 years.
One of the first Scots to be diagnosed with the virus when testing was made available in 1985, Ann said: “I never thought I’d make it to 40, never mind 60.
“Life wasn’t very good. I was an intravenous drug user. I was a junkie. I started taking heroin when I was 18. I was still a baby but I was a heroin addict. I met a boy and that was the beginning of the end.
“I thought I was in love but heroin became my first love, my everything.”
Gripped by her drug addiction, Ann spent more than a decade feeding her chronic habit but a clampdown on the heroin trade in Edinburgh in the early 1980s forced her into cold turkey.
Desperate, she injected some tablets into her muscles and developed an abscess. It was while being treated for the infection that she had the HIV test.
Ann, from Edinburgh, said: “I knew one girl who had the virus and I was wishing it would be negative. But I knew it would be positive.
“It wasn’t a shock or a surprise. A doctor came and told me and he was getting quite upset. But when he left the room, the cleaners came in and they almost threw me out. They had masks on to fumigate the room.
“The ambulance men came to take me to the infectious diseases hospital and they were wearing masks and gloves. I thought, ‘If this is how the professionals treat me, what will it be like in the real world?’
“I felt like a leper. I can understand why people were frightened but it didn’t make me feel good. I was scared. Not scared of dying but scared of leaving the hospital.”
Ann is one of 4856 infected patients in Scotland but around 25 per cent of people living with HIV in Scotland have yet to be diagnosed.
There is evidence that most new HIV infections are transmitted by people unaware of their status. And experts have encouraged those at risk to get tested early and find out their status to help stabilise their condition.
  HIV Awareness: Scot tells how love, luck and medical breakthroughs have helped him survive 30 years with killer virus
Ann, who will mark her 60th birthday later this year with her twin Fredrick, began combination therapy in the late 1990s.
At one point, she was taking 22 tablets per day. Now, she takes just one.
She said: “In that week waiting for the test result, I thought, ‘What am I going to do?’ So I stopped using drugs. I was only 30 years old. I wasn’t married and I didn’t have any children.
“For the first couple of years, I was in the wilderness. Luckily, Waverley Care came along and helped me. It was first opened as a hospice and I knew a lot of young people who died much younger than me.
“I think I am one of the luckiest women walking. I did change my life around. I stopped taking drugs. I started taking care of my health. I started taking my health seriously. I didn’t want my parents to see me die and I was able to nurse my parents when they got older.”
When Ann was diagnosed in 1985, the first tests for HIV had just become available as scientists desperately searched for a vaccine. A year after the controversial tombstone adverts and a fear campaign to halt the spread of the disease, the Government life expectancy for anyone diagnosed with HIV was chronically low.
 

Ann said: “We were told that the virus would kill us within five to seven years.
“Before I left hospital, a doctor came up to me and gave me a bit of paper. He gave me six or seven things to do – practice safe sex, don’t share a toothbrush, don’t get your ears pierced and don’t get a tattoo were some of them. And some antibiotics. There were no support services and nobody who could tell you about it. It was frightening. You were just waiting to get the disease that would kill you.
“I am lucky. I have never had an illness like pleurisy or pneumonia.”
Ann chose not to tell many people about her diagnosis. But she believes perceptions have changed and she can be more open now.
She said: “A lot of people think the virus has gone away but it hasn’t. But it’s not a death sentence. I’m living proof.
“I think home testing is a good idea. I think people were scared to go for a test. You can be a bit more open now.
“Years ago, if someone knew you were positive they were afraid to kiss you, or they would throw out the cup you had been using or they were scared to use the toilet after you. There’s less of a stigma now.”
Self-test kits went on sale in Scotland just two weeks ago. It is the latest addition to testing which is available in clinics and community settings.
At &pound;30, they give results straight away but experts advise patients to speak to a GP to confirm the result.
As she approaches her 60th birthday, Ann is making plans for the future. She lost her partner of five years recently but she remains positive in her outlook and is encouraging others to get tested.
She said: “If I hadn’t been tested I would probably be dead. Getting the diagnosis made me think, ‘I don’t want to die’. I thought, ‘I have to look after myself’.
“I don’t regret not getting married. But I do regret not having children because they could have taken care of me in my old age. My mother Margaret lived until she was 71 and my father lived until he was 97. I think they were proud of me.”
David Bingham, Senior Health Promotions Specialist with the Terence Higgins Trust said: “In the 80s when testing became commonplace there was a real feeling of ‘why bother’? Because there was nothing to be gained from knowing your status. Today, there clearly are benefits. You can have test results in 20 minutes.
“At the Trust we have also been focusing in welfare reform. Years ago, people were told not to think about pensions or careers. It’s very different now. If you have lived with HIV for a long time and you haven’t thought about the future, do that now. We can also help to support people back to work.”
The charity Waverley Care provide care and support to people living with HIV or Hepatitis C.
Chief executive Grant Sugden said: “With a fifth of people living with HIV in Scotland unaware of their diagnosis, we need to keep working to break down the stigma still associated with it and encourage people who feel they may have been at risk of contracting the virus to take a test.
“Knowing your status has many benefits, including taking control of and improving your longer-term health, getting access to treatment and preventing passing on the virus to others.”
Test your knowledge with our news quiz:

