A MUM died after care home staff failed to give her first aid when she stopped breathing.
Care watchdogs have upheld a host of complaints from Christina Watson’s daughter about her mother’s lack of treatment.
Nicola Davidson told how she was phoned in her car by a staff member telling her that her mum had died.
But she said when she arrived home, her husband called the carers – to be told they’d resuscitated Christina and taken her to hospital.
She was pronounced dead at hospital, with care home staff not giving CPR blamed as a key factor.
The Care Inspectorate this week upheld three complaints from Nicola about her mum’s treatment at Ashgill Care Home in Milton, Glasgow.
They ruled staff failed to identify Christina was in urgent need of medical attention, failed to give first aid while waiting for paramedics and, on a separate occasion, failed to provide her with care for 24 hours.
Christina, 55, had gone into the home a year ago as she needed 24-hour-care after a fall caused a brain injury which left her unable to walk. She had spent the year before at a brain injury unit. Her mind had been unaffected by the injury.
Nicola, 38, became more concerned about her mum in mid-December – about a week before she died – as she looked tired and had a bad cough.
She said: “A doctor gave her an antibiotic but about five days later my mum was looking worse.”
 

Nicola was then told her mum had been given different antibiotics – but a couple of days later Christina passed away.
When Nicola heard her mum had been resuscitated, she went to Glasgow Royal Infirmary – but was later told Christina had suffered brain damage after having had a heart attack.
She had been left too long without oxygen because no CPR had been done by care home staff.
Nicola, who has not been paid for this story, said: “If the nurses at the home had administered CPR it could have been an entirely different story.
“They did know what to do and did nothing.”
The Care Inspectorate have issued the home with three compulsory requirements on dealing with residents in need of emergency medical help and will report their probe findings to the Nursing and Midwifery Council.
Ashgill Care Home did not provide any comment.
Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

