 ALEX Salmond has blasted the UK government for refusing to take its share of the refugees cast adrift in the Mediterranean by people smugglers . 
 The SNP’s new Foreign Affairs spokesman, on his first outing since being appointed, condemned the UK government, and Home Secretary Theresa May in particular, for refusing to accept a EU quota of migrants. 
The former First Minister said the UK government had “hopelessly misjudged” the unfolding refugee crisis on Europe’s doorstep.
Theresa May has picked a fight with Brussels by insisting Britain will not participate in a mandatory EU programme to resettle migrants rescued trying to cross the Mediterranean to Europe.
The EU plan would re-settle refugees rescued from the ocean across all EU member states to relieve the pressure on Southern European countries.
May argued yesterday that nothing should be done to encourage more people to make the perilous journey to Europe.
“That is why the UK will not participate in a mandatory system of resettlement or relocation,” she said.

But last night Salmond said Britain should take its full allocation of 60,000 refugees with Scotland accepting a proportionate share.
He said: “We would take our fair share as a country of Britain and I’m quite certain the Scottish government will push very hard for that.”
Salmond set the SNP opposition as the conscience of the UK government by saying the Home Secretary was out of tune with people in England and Scotland on the issue.
He said: “Theresa May is hopelessly mis-judging this. I can think of very few people in Scotland and in England. Who would want to turn away people in extremity given the scenes we’ve all witnessed on television?”
“I think most people are human beings when they see people in extremity they want to help and I think a government that doesn’t understand that basic human instinct doesn’t represent people properly.”
He added: “Where are these people to go? They cannot stay in the hold of a warship in the middle of the Mediterranean for any length of time. So Britain must play its full part. Britain should take the full 60,000 and Scotland will take its proportionate share and we would argue for that.”

