NEEDLES, drill bits and wire were among the foreign objects left inside patients by surgeons during operations in Scottish hospitals.
There have been at least 54 cases over the last four years – and some were only detected after CT scans, ultrasounds and X-rays.
Scotland’s largest health board, Greater Glasgow NHS, have had 11 patients with objects left inside them, including plastic from a surgical instrument.
Hospitals including Vale of Leven, Southern General, the RAH in Paisley and the Royal Hospital for Sick Children were involved.
The health board have paid out thousands of pounds in compensation to one patient.
But a spokesman said there were systems in place to prevent this happening. He added: “All swabs and instruments are counted in and out during every open operative procedure.
“However, the system has not worked on these particular occasions.”
NHS Grampian paid out a total of &pound;85,593 in compensation to fewer than five patients over the last four years.
Two of the incidents included drill bits breaking during orthopaedic procedures and a decision being made that leaving the fragment in place was the best option for the patient.
Jenny Marra, Scottish Labour’s health spokesman, said: “We have to understand why there has been so many of these types of mistakes. If surgeons and support staff are being placed under too much pressure or equipment is faulty, the Scottish Government must do more to help and avoid these lapses in care.”
In Tayside, nine patients have been affected at hospitals including Ninewells in Dundee, Perth Royal Infirmary and Drumhar Community Hospital.
Although some errors were discovered during procedures, others were only uncovered after CT scans, ultrasounds and X-rays. Objects left included a broken blade tip, swabs, a drill bit – and a piece of contraceptive device.
There have been at least four cases in NHS Highland. Surgical swabs were sewn into patients during procedures at the Lorn and Islands General Hospital in Oban and at Raigmore Hospital in Inverness.
In NHS Fife, seven objects were left inside patients in 2013. In Lothian, there were 10 recorded events between January 2011 and March this year at the Royal Infirmary and Western General Hospital in Edinburgh and St John’s Hospital in Livingston.
In Lanarkshire, six patients were discharged from Wishaw General with objects still inside them.
 Tory MSP John Lamont said: “These mistakes may be down to the fact that our medical staff  seem to be overstretched and overworked. We believe in the reintroduction of prescription charges for those who can afford to pay, which would help deliver more staff resource in hospitals.” 
There were no recorded instances in NHS Western Isles, Shetland, Borders, Dumfries &amp; Galloway or Ayrshire &amp; Arran.
Health Secretary Shona Robison said: “These are serious incidents. However, they are extremely rare in the context of the thousands of operations and procedures that take place across Scotland every day.
“Unfortunately, mistakes can happen and we expect NHS boards to act swiftly to rectify errors and learn lessons to prevent incidents happening again.”

