TWO serial rapists targeted by a special police task force have been jailed for life.
Jerry McMurray, 35, carried out brutal assaults on seven women during a 16-year campaign of terror.
Thomas Laird , 39, raped three women and threatened to rape a fourth over 18 years of abuse.
Both men were convicted after officers from the National Domestic Abuse Task Force – launched to target Scotland’s worst domestic violence thugs – led investigations into the years of terror they inflicted.
Detective Chief Inspector Samantha McCluskey, who leads the unit, said: “I hope the sentences imposed on Laird and McMurray bring some closure for the victims who suffered horrendous abuse at their hands.
“It is only through the courage of these women in speaking up that the behaviour of these men came to light and was ultimately stopped.
“I hope this demonstrates to victims that domestic abuse will not be tolerated and that it encourages anyone suffering such abuse to report it and to know there is help available.
“Equally, it should send a clear message to perpetrators of domestic abuse that there is no hiding place.”
Last week, the Sunday Mail revealed that 39 men had been caged for a total of 229 years after being targeted by the National Domestic Abuse Task Force in the past year – with six receiving Orders for Lifelong Restriction, similar to being jailed for life.
The sentencing of Laird and McMurray take the total given Orders for Lifelong Restriction to eight.
McMurray, of Fife, must serve a minimum of eight and a half years before he can be considered for parole.
 

He was jailed at the High Court in Glasgow on Friday after being convicted of 14 charges, including raping and sexually assaulting several victims at locations across Fife from January 1997 to July 2013.
A court had previously heard he sprayed deodorant into the eyes of one woman, while he stabbed another with a fork, pinned her against a freezer and attempted to strangle her.
He abducted another victim, held her hostage, attacked her with a pool cue, placed a knife to her throat and tried to choke her.
He held one of his young victims hostage for four months, repeatedly raping her and even breaking her ribs with a dumbbell.
Laird was jailed at the High Court in Edinburgh on Monday after a court heard evidence he used violence against women to ensure he got his way.
He must serve a minimum of five years before he can get parole.
One of his victims, who met Laird when she was just 15, told how he held a knife to her throat and threatened to rape her after she told him she was leaving him.
She said he had groomed her young sister from the age of 11, sexually abusing her, and her sister fell pregnant by him.
She told the court she thought she was “living in a Jerry Springer show”.
Laird, who carried out his crimes in Airdrie, Glasgow and Dunbartonshire, met one of his rape victims through an internet site.
He attempted to strangle another victim and threatened her with a knife when she said she didn’t want to have sex with him.
On sentencing him, temporary judge O’Grady placed Laird on the sex offenders’ register and said: “It is clear that you are a clever, manipulative and exploitative individual who has spent years abusing vulnerable women.”
MICHELLE Paterson admits she feared sadistic Jerry McMurray was going to kill her after he brutally attacked her in her home.
She only escaped his clutches by slashing him with a kitchen knife and climbing out the window of her top-floor flat on to scaffolding.
Michelle, 32, of Fife, said: “I was one of the luckier victims – he never forced himself on mebut he did physically assault me.
 

“He was obsessive and very jealous and didn’t want me going out with my friends or even my family.
“The time he held me hostage in my flat, I honestly thought he was going to kill me.
“He took the handle off my living room door so I couldn’t get out and started accusing me of cheating on him.
“He was going crazy – pulling my hair, pushing and kicking me – and I was terrified.
“I grabbed a knife from the kitchen – which was off the living room – and ended up stabbing him.
“I lived on the third floor and, if the scaffolding hadn’t been there, I don’t know what would have happened.
“I should have left Jerry the first time he assaulted me but I gave him a second chance. In the end, I was scared of him.
“The Domestic Abuse Task Force turning up was a shock but reporting what happened was the right thing to do.”

