 FRIENDS of a man who died after being arrested were demanding answers yesterday over how police handled the incident. 
 It’s understood 31-year-old father-of-two Sheku Bayoh may have suffered a heart attack after officers were called to a Kirkcaldy street in the early hours of Sunday . 
 A female police officer needed hospital treatment after the incident . 
Bayoh lived nearby with his partner Collette Bell, who is mum to his three-month-old son, Isaac.
The teacher, 26, was being comforted at her mother’s house in Glenrothes yesterday and was unavailable for comment.
But one of Bayoh’s best friends, Kufre Okoko, said: “Shek was a gentle guy who was making a future for his family.
“He worked hard for British Gas and was due to sit an exam this Wednesday to try to get promotion.
“He loved his baby son Isaac and Collette and his life totally changed for the better when he met her.
“It’s a real tragedy and we need some answers.”
Kufre, 25, of Lochgelly, Fife, revealed that Bayoh fled the civil war in Sierra Leone to start a new life in Scotland.
He added: “The police have told Shek’s family four different versions of what happened and none of them are adding up.
“First they were looking for a couple of his friends, then they weren’t, and now they’re saying he may have died in custody.
“His house is normally very tidy but stuff was trashed everywhere when I looked through the window – like there had been a scuffle.
“We want to know how, when and where he died, whether the police used tazers on him, what was done to try to save him and what he was accused of.
“We don’t know if he died in his house, on the street or in a cell – the police are saying nothing.
“Feelings are running pretty high at the moment.”
 

Yesterday, two police cars guarded the front and back of Bayoh’s house in Arran Crescent, which is just yards from the scene of the incident in Hayfield Road.
A police evidence bag covered a gold watch in the front garden of a neighbouring house. It was later identified by Kufre as possibly belonging to Bayoh.
There was one local report of a man seen carrying a blade in the Hayfield Road area before officers were called.
Another witness described seeing at least 15 officers surrounding someone lying on the pavement in the recovery position.
Neither report has been verified by police in Fife, who referred all inquiries to the Police Investigations and Review Commissioner.
Fife divisional commander Chief Superintendent Garry McEwan said: “This is a tragic set of circumstances and my condolences go to the man’s family.”
A PIRC spokeswoman said: “I am able to confirm the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service have directed us to carry out an independent investigation into the circumstances surrounding the death of Sheku Bayoh, who had been detained by police shortly before his death.
“As this is a live investigation, it would be inappropriate to comment further at this time.”
British Gas said: “Sheku was a valued member of the team in Edinburgh.
“He was liked and respected by everyone and our thoughts and sympathies are with his family.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

