 A YOUNG dad has died and 16-year-old girl collapsed in the street after taking controversial legal high drugs . 
 Tributes were paid yesterday to Jamie Donnelly, 25, who died at Forth Valley Hospital after taking legal highs. 
Meanwhile it emerged that a 16-year-old girl was found having a fit in the street after allegedly buying one of the substances.
Now locals in Falkirk have launched an angry campaign against a local shop which they blame for peddling legal highs.
Staff at the shop, Vapour Monster in Falkirk, have called in police after receiving death threats.
The shop deny selling legal highs to the teenage girl or Jamie - but openly sold a legal high drug to a customer when visited by the Daily Record yesterday.
Friends of Jamie took to social media to pay tribute to the Celtic fan.
Claire Lindley wrote: “So so sad. God needed an angel. RIP Jamie boi.”
Stuart Comrie said: “You’re a legend bro. You’ll no be forgotten.”
And Charles Murray said: “Sad day. RIP Jamie.”and family of Jamie, who leaves behind an eight-year-old son, have reacted furiously on social media.
Claire Lindley wrote: “So so sad. God needed an angel. RIP Jamie boi.”
Stuart Comrie said: “You’re a legend bro. You’ll no be forgotten.”
And Charles Murray said: “Sad day. RIP Jamie.”
Family of Jamie, who leaves behind an eight-year-old son, have also reacted furiously on social media
Jamie’s sister, Nicole McDonald, said: “Legal highs should not be getting sold in shops whatsoever. It was my brother that was the man that passed away from it. Sleep tight Jamie.”
 

Nicole then named Vapour Monster when people asked her to name the shop she believes sold Jamie the substance.
On Jamie’s Facebook page he openly talked about getting his hands on the drugs - with a picture of highs like Blue Cheese, Kronic, Bugglegum Kush.
He says: “Packin Yessahh!”.
But the manager at the shop, who refused to be named, has denied selling the substances and said he would not comment on any of the allegations surrounding Jamie’s death or the schoolgirl’s collapse.
He said: “We don’t sell legal highs in this shop and I’m not going to comment on someone’s death when no-one knows what has happened.
“We had to call in police over death threats but I’m not speaking to you about that. It would be irresponsible to comment and I’ve probably said too much already.”
However while our reporter was inside the shop a man entered and bought a silver foil wrapped substance believed to be a legal high.
When our reporter tried to speak to the customer the manager intervened.
He said: “No, you’re not talking to our customers about it.”
The customer told our reporter to ‘beat it’ when asked.
It’s understood the girl was found by a 46-year-old woman in the street foaming at the mouth and almost unconscious.
The woman, who took to social media with the story, said the teenager almost died in her arms and was saved by paramedics in the ambulance.
She said she had received a message from the girl’s father thanking her.
She wrote: “I woke up to a message from her dad. It said ‘u saved my daughter’s life last night and I can’t thank you enough. I am in hospital and I can not ever explain what u have done. She survived and that is due to you. I will do everything in my power to ban these high. For ever in your debt.”
Furious locals have said they have been writing to their MSP and police about the shop for several months following allegations they were selling the substances, which are clearly marked not fit for human consumption.
One woman, Dianne Campbell, said she had contacted the shop about selling legal highs and her local councillor and MSP back in January this year.
She said: “RIP to the poor guy and thoughts with his family. Time this shop was closed down.”
Janette Dawson wrote: “The usual. Wait until there’s a death and the family have to suffer the consequences until something is done. Shops still open for business, can’t believe that.”
Police confirmed they were treating the death of a 25-year-old man last Thursday as ‘unexplained’ and also confirmed a 46-year-old woman has been arrested and charged with a communications offence over the death threats.
A spokesman for Police Scotland said: “The Scottish Ambulance Service alerted police in Falkirk after a 16-year-old girl collapsed, on Sunday May 24.
“The youth was transported by ambulance to Forth Valley Royal Hospital for treatment.
“She has since been discharged into the care of her parents.”
On the threats to the shop, a spokesman said: “Police in Forth Valley can confirm that a 46 year old woman from the Falkirk area was arrested and charged yesterday in connection with a Communications Offence.
“A report will be submitted to the Procurator Fiscal.”

