 

 TENS of thousands of people are backing a campaign to make the North of England part of Scotland . 
The hashtag #TakeUsWithYouScotland has been used more than 24,000 times on Twitter.
And a petition backing the move to take northern cities under the control of the Scots has more than 16,000 signatures.
'New Scotland' would see Newcastle, Manchester, Liverpool, Leeds, and every other northern community ruled from Edinburgh instead of London.
Posted on change.org, Stu Dent of Sheffield writes: &quot;The deliberations in Westminster are becoming increasingly irrelevant to the north of England.
&quot;The northern cities feel far greater affinity with their Scottish counterparts such as Glasgow and Edinburgh than with the ideologies of the London-centric south.
&quot;The needs and challenges of the north cannot be understood by the endless parade of old Etonians lining the front benches of the House of Commons.
&quot;The north of England should join the newly independent Scotland and regain control over its own destiny.&quot;
   Below: Poll results on our sister Evening Chronicle website   
 
We're moving! Newcastle votes to ditch England and join the Scots #TakeUsWithYouScotland http://t.co/EB1rfFWYh8 pic.twitter.com/SiD7IQAXIF

His petition calls on the map of England to be re-drawn so Scottish border, from Chester in the west to Sheffield in the east, along a line between the River Dee and the mouth of The Humber.
The 'new Scotland', to come into place if Scots gain independence, has been re-Tweeted more than 3,000 times.
The call came as George Osborne promised a &quot;revolution&quot; in the way England is governed, with elected mayors presiding over far greater powers in major cities.
The Chancellor used his first speech of the new parliament today to extend his Northern Powerhouse vision, calling on other urban areas to follow the example of Greater Manchester in taking advantage of new powers.
He plans to help areas outside London rival the capital and end a &quot;broken&quot; political system which saw power concentrated in Whitehall.
Cities in the North have traditionally been Labour and many returned Labour MPs. But voters in Yorkshire and Lancashire started to use #TakeUsWithYouScotland shortly after the General Election.
 Below: Our sister Manchester Evening News website also found backing for plan 
 
#TakeUsWithYouScotland! Manchester votes to ditch England &amp; join the Scots http://t.co/xqVLJkkhWi pic.twitter.com/kTwg143TFX

Some cracked jokes using the tag after North West Motorway Police announced they had &quot;picked up a pedestrian on the M62 who was trying to walk to Scotland&quot;.
Mr Dent, who started the petition after the Scot referendum on independence last year, has seen it grow in recent days.
&quot;There is a huge frustration in parts of the UK about the things that have happened since 2010,&quot; he said.
&quot;I think people need a place to go where they can say 'not in my name! This is not the England I want',&quot; he added.
It has won support from the SNP, whose social media expert Ross Colquhoun tweeted:
 
2014: #LetsStayTogether 2015: #TakeUsWithYouScotland What a difference a year makes.

Those backing the petition included Holly Johnson, of Newcastle, who wrote: &quot;I'd rather party with the Scots any day. Keep the North together!&quot;
John Slane, also based in Newcastle, wrote: &quot;It's a brilliant idea! We love the Scottish and they love us (I think? Haha).&quot;
Luke Weatherburn added: &quot;I live in Newcastle and feel we are far more connected and cared about by Scotland than by London.&quot;
Ten major cities - Newcastle, Manchester, Liverpool, Birmingham, Sheffield, Nottingham, Leeds, Glasgow, Cardiff and Bristol - called for greater powers this week, saying they could create 1.2m more jobs in the next 15 years, adding &pound;&pound;222 billion to the economy.
They say that is the equivalent of adding the entire Danish economy to the UK.



