FIVE siblings face a nerve-racking blood test decision that could reveal if they carry a death sentence disease.
 The brothers and sisters, from seven to 24 years old, all have a 50 per cent chance of having Huntington’s. 
The inherited, incurable condition damages nerve cells in the brain leading to a progressive loss of movement and behaviour changes.
It has already taken a terrible toll on their 69-year-old gran Janice, whose own mum died from the disease.
It is now starting to affect their mum Karen Hall, 44, who has known she had the disease since she was in her 20s.
Keri, 24, Jen, 22, Chloe, 17, Gillan, 10 and Natalie, seven, all face a huge &shy;decision over whether to have the tests which could establish if they have the devastating genetic illness.
 “I haven’t decided whether to go ahead and have it as there is no cure as yet,” said childcare worker Keri, from Glenrothes . 
“Finding out whether or not I have the gene will be the hardest decision I’ll ever make.”
 The decision principally affects Keri, Jen and Chloe at the moment, as you have to be 18 to take the blood test to determine if you have Huntington’s. 
Karen is trying to help her children make the decision. She began showing symptoms a couple of years ago but is determined to help her family live life to the full.
“At the moment I count myself incredibly lucky,” said Karen. “Life is not forever for anyone and these are our happy days and we don’t plan to waste any of them.”
“I am incredibly proud of my family and know I’ll have prepared them for whatever the future may hold.”
Karen, who is a part-time support worker for people with special needs, first learned about Huntington’s when she was only 12 – and it terrified her.
She said: “When a relative broke the news when I was younger, I was scared for my life. Now I am determined my children will be guided through this and that it is made as bearable as possible for them.”
 

Sixth-year Glenrothes High School pupil Chloe, 17, is pleased to have such strong support from her mum and siblings. She also hasn’t decided if she will have the test or not.
She said: “I don’t know if I will ever be tested because at the moment there is no cure.
“I just want to live my life to the full and go on to study to become a fitness trainer. It is vital to stay as healthy as possible and I love exercise. It would be wrong to live in the shadow of this disease and let it blight our lives.”
Hairdresser sister Jen feels the same. She said: “When I found out about Huntington’s I was convinced I would want to find out my results as soon as I was able to.
“The more I think about it, the more I wonder if knowing the result is really going to change my attitude.”
Karen had her children knowing she could pass on the genetic condition because experts back in the 80s were promising a cure was around the corner. And while treatment has still to be discovered, the family have bravely spoken out to raise awareness about Huntington’s.
Keri said: “We are where breast cancer was two generations ago. I learned at 15 that it could be me. When I was told, I came to realise the chance of all of us avoiding it was greater than winning the Lotto.
“I realised I had to cope with it in a grown-up way because there was no point in falling apart. Everyone faces a challenge some time in their lives and this is ours.”
Keri is determined to become a teacher. “If I have a short life then I want to make my mark in the world,” she said.
Huntington’s has no known cure. It is genetic and passed on to children, who have a 50-50 chance of having it.
Nerve cells in the brain are damaged and this gets progressively worse over time affecting movement, cognition and behaviour. Early symptoms can include personality changes, mood swings, fidgety movements and altered behaviour, which can be overlooked by GPs.
It is caused by a faulty gene but in three per cent of cases there is no family history, normally because a parent died at a young age before developing the condition.
Hope for a treatment lies with a drug being researched by Californian scientists which could delay symptoms. New IVF treatment can also allow people to select embryos without the faulty gene.

