DRAINED booze bottles , bin bags full of rubbish and discarded knives are not the first thing you think of when you head for the Highlands.
But that’s just what we found on a day out with a ranger whose job is looking after one of Scotland’s national treasures – Loch Lomond and the Trossachs National Park .
It’s an increasingly difficult task – which is why next week the park authority’s proposed camping bye-laws will be lodged with the Scottish Government , aiming to put an end to the abuse of beauty spots.
The plan would apply to 3.7 per cent of the 720 sq mile park, focusing on the loch shores, and make it against the law to camp without a permit.
The proposals are controversial, with negative feedback from hillwalking and mountaineering groups, who fear they will conflict with right to roam laws.

But ranger Suzanne Humphries says the change is vital to protect the sites.
She says she watched bye-laws introduced five years ago at east Loch Lomond sites transform tourist areas almost overnight – stamping out anti-social behavior, litter and vandalism. Now she wants to see the same for her area.
Visiting abandoned camps we found at beauty spots, Suzanne is upset by what she finds. A warm, dry Saturday has attracted campers to a spot on the shore of Loch Achray, where we find the remains of fires, empty beer cans, broken glass and a knife stuck into a tree. Small trees have been cut down.
Suzanne said: “I get embarrassed when I see this and know what tourists are finding when they come here.”
We move on to Loch Venachar where we are greeted by bags of rubbish and discarded Buckfast bottles.
Further down the shore, we find the remains of another fire where tarpaulin sheets have been been burned and another bag of rubbish dumped.
The mess was left by stag party revellers who assured rangers they would clean up after themselves.

Suzanne said: “We have been trying to change this behaviour for years. I talk to people about it until I’m blue in the face but it’s not making a difference.
“We’re at the point where we can’t accept this any more.
“The key is education, better facilities and enforcement. We have seen it at sites we have invested in and know it works.”
Occasionally the rangers are threatened or subjected to abuse from campers.
Suzanne said: “If a group have been drinking Buckfast all day, it might not be worth putting the rangers at risk.
“All we want is for people, families and tourists to be able to enjoy these areas to the full.”

