ALMOST 5000 criminals in Scotland’s courts last year already had more than 20 convictions.
And about 140 had committed more than 50 previous offences.
The figures were condemned yesterday by campaigners and politicians, and the Scottish Government admitted there was “work to do” to tackle repeat offending.
 John Muir, whose son Damian was murdered by a repeat offender, said: “These figures are shocking. There is a hardcore of offenders who have no dignity and are helped along, not tackled, by elements of a  legal system quite happy to perpetuate a revolving door mindset.” 
 John, who lectures to schoolchildren on the dangers of knife carrying, added: “No one seems to be  able to tackle this. There’s a rump of offenders who don’t care. 
“One thing perhaps worth looking at is the introduction of minimum-sentence tariffs for people with a specific number of previous convictions.”
 Labour justice spokesman MSP Hugh Henry said: “These shocking figures demonstrate that, as a  country, we are failing to tackle repeat offending. 
“We need to look at the underlying causes and for those who insist upon following a career of crime, more consideration needs to be given to the adequacy of the sentence.
“We can’t afford to have a revolving door of prisoners going through courts and ending up with these numbers of convictions.”
 Last month, an extra &pound;200,000 was pumped into a project at Low Moss jail, at Bishopbriggs, near  Glasgow, to tackle the issue. 
Figures obtained by the Sunday Mail show 110,611 people were convicted in Scottish courts in 2014 – a rate of more than 300 a day.
The data reveals 4744 men and women, one in 20, had committed between 20 and 49 previous offences.
A tenth of those convicted, 11,170, had between 10 and 19 previous offences on their rap sheets and 54,166 had between one and nine previous convictions. Only 40,382 were first offenders.
At the top end, 149 criminals had more than 50 previous convictions.
The Scottish Court Service said the data was from court figures between June 2007 and December 2014.
One of the highest numbers of previous convictions heard in a Scottish court relates to the pair convicted of the murder of widow Margaret Irvine, 91, in her Ayrshire home.
At the sentencing of Patrick Docherty and Brendan Dixon in 2005, it emerged Docherty, now 51, had 54 previous convictions for 120 offences while Dixon, now 46, had 30 convictions for 48 offences.
A Scottish Government spokeswoman said last week: “The re-conviction rate in Scotland is at its lowest for 16 years and recorded crime is at its lowest in 40 years.
“There is still work to do to reduce these figures further. We need to look at new ways of getting the message across to the older generation of persistent offenders who we are finding it harder to reach.
 “Re-offending has a devastating impact on the victims of crime and their families and there can be  no let-up in our co-ordinated and concerted efforts to further reduce re-offending, promote rehabilitation and make our communities safer. 
“That’s why the targeted investment we’re making towards the younger generation is so important as it can avert a lifelong career of offending.”

