BUNGLING cops have been forced to pay compensation to a student after they mistakenly flogged his stolen motorbike to a new owner.
 Niall McLeod's neon green Kawasaki trail bike was stolen from Dalry, Edinburgh in September 2013. 
A contractor for police took details of the vehicle and told Niall they would keep in touch if they found it - but the 21 year old lost hope as the months went on.
It has since been revealed the bike turned up in West Pilton, Edinburgh, two weeks after the theft - but due to an error in paperwork Niall was not told.
The vehicle ended up being sold at an auction of unclaimed stolen vehicles and now has a new owner in Galashiels, Borders.
Red-faced officers admitted the bike's vehicle identification number (VIN) had been taken down wrong, meaning when it was found it did not match Niall's details.
As it was a trail bike, there was no registration number for police to record.
Niall has received &pound;4000 in compensation from Police Scotland after initially refusing to take &pound;1000.
 The bike enthusiast, who has just finished studying marine biology at Heriot Watt University said: &quot;When I got a phone call at the end of July last year, saying 'we might have found your motorbike', I said, it's been a fairly long time. 
&quot;I had expected by that point that I would never see it again.
&quot;Apparently they'd written down a number wrong. It's obviously a case of doing a computer search rather than doing any police work.&quot;
He added that cops finally admitted their mistake at the end of January, offering him &pound;1000.
After seeking legal advice he disputed the offer and and accepted a new offer of &pound;4000 in compensation this week.
A new bike will cost between &pound;2800 and &pound;3200, while the remainder of the sum has been given to Niall for the &quot;inconvenience&quot;.
He said: &quot;I wanted to raise awareness for people with motorbikes but also to highlight how unhelpful the police have been.
&quot;It's coming up for two years ago. It's been months of me being out of pocket and at a disadvantage,&quot; said Niall.
&quot;Because the new owner bought it from a reputable [source] - police verified it and everything - they said they couldn't take it back off him, unlike if you got it off Gumtree.&quot;
 A police spokeswoman said: &quot; Police Scotland can confirm that an offer was made to resolve the claim in January 2015 which was repeated in April 2015. 
&quot;This was accepted in an email dated April 30, 2015.&quot;
Police in Edinburgh have a specialist department for stolen property.
When stolen vehicles are recovered they are handed over to a contracted garage which looks after them.
The garage then tries to contact the owner and gives them 21 days to collect the vehicle.
If they remain unclaimed they are sold at auction and the money goes into public funds after a year.

