 ED MILIBAND finds himself between a rock and a hard place – trapped in a perfect pincer movement by the Tories and the SNP. 
 Down south, the Conservatives are making inroads into marginal seats by playing up the risk of the SNP forcing Miliband to the left if he leads a minority government. 
It is a cynical, despicable strategy that deliberately sets England against Scotland in a deceitful, dishonest way. But there is some polling evidence that it may be working.
 Trying to calm the fears of English voters is the real reason why Miliband ramped up the rhetoric against the SNP during the BBC Question Time special on Thursday night. 
But in doing so, he has made another headache for himself in Scotland.
 By insisting he would never do a deal with Nicola Sturgeon even if it cost him the chance to be prime minister, the Labour leader will inevitably leave many Scots wondering what his priorities are. 
The First Minister was unsurprisingly quick to seize on the weakness.
 In an interview with the Daily Record, she claimed Miliband would kill off Scottish Labour for good if he let David Cameron back into No10 rather than work with her. 
There are, of course, several serious inconsistencies in Sturgeon’s own position.
If Labour really are just Red Tories, as many of her supporters claim, why does it matter whether Miliband or Cameron is PM?
And if it is perfectly acceptable for Sturgeon to rule out doing any deal with the Tories if they win the vote in England, why is it undemocratic for Labour to rule out a deal with the SNP if they win in Scotland?
To most voters, hypothetical haggling over a post-election deal is irrelevant. They just want a government that will tackle poverty, create jobs and help build a fairer society.
 That is the real reason why Scots would never forgive Miliband or Sturgeon if either of them allowed Cameron back into Downing Street. 
 

 The red-tape saga of Josh McConville sums up what’s wrong with Scottish football. 
 The keen 12-year-old player appeals a red- card suspension and ends up having to make an 80-mile journey from his home to appear before a disciplinary panel. 
 But when he gets to Hampden with his folks and grandad, they’re sent packing because the lad hasn’t signed his form. 
Couldn’t common sense have been applied, given the effort the family had gone to? In most walks of life, you’d like to think it would.
But this farce was played out in the corridors of power of our national game – so the answer, of course, is a resolute no.
In the end, a tearful youngster ends up on a long journey home, disillusioned with the sport he loves. Not that that’s likely to mean much to the blazers... rules are rules, after all.
But with our beloved game struggling like never before, surely discretion could be applied – especially where kids are involved.
 By turning off the next generation of players, our football beaks really are scoring an own goal. 

