GANGSTERS have put a &pound;10,000 bounty on the heads of several men involved in a party where an underage girl was filmed having sex, it was claimed last night.
Jailed criminals from north Edinburgh targeted a boxer who was at the party and others.
Sources said the cash was offered because they “took offence” at the explicit video being shot then shared.
Meanwhile, Hibs star Jason Cummings has spoken out about his link to the Mayweather v Pacquiao fight party.
The footballer has described his &quot;nightmare&quot; of discovering on Twitter what is reported to have happened at the Edinburgh flat on Saturday night. 
The Daily Record broke the story on Tuesday but chose not to name the sportsman as we knew he had no involvement in the incident.
But he has chosen to speak about the abuse he has received online since the alleged incident. 
He told The Sun: “It’s got nothing to do with me. It has been a nightmare for me and my family. There was about 50-odd people at the party.
“Me and my mates were there, down the stairs watching the boxing.
“I’m sitting with my mates having a laugh, having a beer or whatever, and then I get dragged into this.
“I only found out when I was getting abuse on Twitter. The police haven’t spoken to me.”
The 15-year-old girl at the centre of the tape storm went to a bedroom with a man where they had sex – while other party-goers recorded them on phones .
The video was shared across social media before concerned members of the public alerted the Record. We informed police who launched an investigation.
A source said: “A lot of people at the party were from the Muirhouse, Drylaw, Granton areas.
“These gangsters are from that area and took offence at what happened to the girl.
“Some guys from the party are known for basically pretending they’re gangsters when they’re not.
“The gangsters don’t like that and now they want to make an example of them.”
A police spokesman said they were investigating the alleged bounty on the men.
An 18-year-old man was yesterday freed by police pending further inquiries into claims he committed a sex act with a 15-year-old girl at the party.
Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

