 QUADRUPLE amputee Corinne Hutton was just hours away from receiving the UK’s first double hand transplant – only to suffer the heartache of missing out for a third time. 
 However, the charity fundraiser and former businesswoman refuses to dwell on the disappointment and has focused instead on a record-breaking challenge. 
 Corinne, of Lochwinnoch, Renfrewshire, had her hands and lower legs amputated after septicaemia set in when she contracted pneumonia about 18 months ago . 
The 45-year-old was given only a five per cent chance of survival but, amazingly, pulled through.
 When she finally finds a perfect match, her operation will be led by Professor Simon Kay, who did the UK’s first single hand  transplant in 2012 on former Royal Marine Mark Cahill. 
Mark, from Yorkshire, was drafted in to speak to Corinne before she agreed to the operation. She said: “After speaking to Mark I thought, ‘I can do this’. I have a bionic hand, which helps, but I just want to feel again.”
Her most recent false alarm, just three weeks ago, was the closest Corinne has come to having the transplant – but she remains upbeat despite a third setback since December.
 

For the procedure to go ahead, any potential match is subjected to a test and cannot be used if it scores less than 10 – which meant the latest pair of hands failed by the narrowest margin possible. Corinne added: “We got to number nine last time. Three surgeons check to see if there is a visual match before the specialist blood tests are done.
“It has to be the correct blood type and it can’t have the same antibodies as me.”
The inspirational mum runs charity Finding Your Feet to help others faced with life-changing trauma and now plans to set a world record for covering 10k in a quadricycle.
Her mammoth effort will take place on Millport this Sunday and she has enlisted former footballer Andy McLaren to help her.
Dundee United legend Andy, co-founder of charity A&amp;M Training, who bring free football to deprived young people, said: “I’m excited to get involved. When I met Corinne I was inspired by her story and her attitude to life.”

