THE family of father-of-two Sheku Bayoh have demanded the truth on how he died in police custody.
They issued a series of key questions yesterday that they want answered – and pledged they won’t be silenced.
The grieving relatives are furious that the officers involved have yet to give statements to the Police Investigations and Review Commissioner.
Sheku, 31, died after he was arrested in a street near his home in Kirkcaldy, Fife, on May 3, following claims he had been seen with a knife.
His sister Kadijatu Johnson said: “My family are tired of officers refusing to speak while my brother’s body lies in a mortuary.
“Nobody should be above the law. If they have nothing to hide, then they have nothing to fear from speaking to the PIRC.
“We also have a message for those who believe they can bully or intimidate us into silence – we will not rest until we have the truth.”
Sheku’s family and partner Collette Bell say in the hours after his death they were told at least five different accounts of what happened to him.
One version given by officers was that Sheku had been found lying in the street by a passer-by and another claimed the police were hunting two suspects in connection with his death.
The PIRC were instructed to take independent control over the investigation. But the family have serious concerns about the probe after discovering that key facts were not handed to the Crown pathologists before the first post-mortem.
 

A source close to the investigation said: “The PIRC meet with the pathologists on the morning to start the post-mortem.
“They give information, background and circumstances to the pathologists and, in these circumstances, all they’ve talked about is a struggle, handcuffs and restraints being applied.
“They give lots of details of what Sheku was up to the day before, of where he is etc, but they give no detail of how many officers attended and the fact that no officer was stabbed.
“It’s looking more and more likely that positional asphyxiation was the cause of death, but we’re still waiting for definitive reports, which have been delayed by officers refusing to give statements to the PIRC.
 “The pathologists have been made aware verbally about the fact that CS spray and batons were used on Sheku, which are significant factors in trying to determine the cause  of death as positional asphyxiation. 
“If you use CS spray, it heightens and alerts. Officers are meant to be trained to realise that that could lead to asphyxiation. The use of batons could also lead to it.
“By doing so, they’re increasing the chances of positional asphyxiation by doing one after another.
“Basically, they’ve lost the plot and done him in.”
 

The Record understands Sheku was subdued with two sprays, the routine CS spray and a more potent form called Pava spray.
The British Gas employee’s family were also horrified to discover the initial post-mortem had been carried out despite them asking for a delay.
They had wanted to wait until Sheku’s mother, Aminata Bayoh, had travelled to Scotland to see his body. But two days after his death, they were notified that it had already gone ahead.
At an earlier press conference, Collette, the mum of Sheku’s four-month-old son Isaac, said: “I need to know why as my partner lay dying a few streets away, the police were busy lying to me in my house, then at the police station.
“I want to know the whole truth of the circumstances surrounding his death so that one day I can explain to my son Isaac Bayoh why he has had to grow up without his daddy.”
The Scottish Police Federation have claimed that a “petite” female officer believed she was “going to die” after Bayoh allegedly launched a violent and unprovoked attack.
Divisional Commander Chief Superintendent Garry McEwan said: “We await the conclusion of the independent investigation and Police Scotland remain committed to co-operating fully with the PIRC’s inquiries.”
 1 Was Sheku brandishing a knife and what risk did he pose to members of the public when he  was arrested? 
2 Was he under the influence of drink and/or drugs – and what evidence is there for the claim?
3 What injuries did the police officer suffer during the altercation and how long did she spend in hospital?
4 How many officers used CS spray and batons on Sheku?
5 What position was Sheku held in after having leg restraints and cuffs put on?
6 Why were Sheku’s family told several different versions of events by police after his death?
7 Why were the family told his body was found by a member of the public and two suspects were being looked for, when police were aware he died in their custody?
8 Why did Police Scotland interview friends under suspicion of Sheku’s death in the hours following his death, when they were fully aware that he died in police custody?
9 How long were Kirkcaldy police in control of the crime scene and Sheku’s house before the PIRC took over?
10 Why, 18 days after Sheku Bayoh’s death, have Kirkcaldy police officers failed to give statements to the PIRC – and why have no officers been suspended during the probe?
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

