Superstar DJ Judge Jules has backed the fight to save a threatened nightclub, saying closure will damage Glasgow’s reputation around the world.
The dance music and Radio One legend has slated the decision to force The Arches to close at midnight instead of 3am.
Speaking from his home in Ibiza, where he runs world-famous club nights, Judge Jules insisted that licensing chiefs could destroy Glasgow’s cultural reputation.
The qualified lawyer, whose real name is Julius O’Riordan, says he can’t understand such a “short-sighted” reaction.
 

He said: “I travel far and wide and the one venue on everyone’s lips as the No1 club in Scotland is The Arches.
“It draws in internationally renowned acts. Closing it down like this can only damage Glasgow and Scotland’s cultural reputation.
“Many other cities have embraced club culture because they know it’s a very important part of the appeal of the city.Places like here in Ibiza have made an entire industry out of it. I just can’t understand the thinking behind the decision to take that away from Glasgow.”
Glasgow Licensing Board agreed to curtail the opening hours – with immediate effect – after reports by Police Scotland two weeks ago. They blamed the decision on a “culture of drug misuse” at the venue, an accusation the club strenuously denies.
Supporters claim the club was asked to report every drugs find and then those reports were used to justify closing it.
The police were also accused of turning on the venue when they refused to have officers stationed there permanently.
The Arches’ board of directors have sought legal advice and will meet on Tuesday to discuss ways forward, including the potential for an appeal.
 Police Scotland had already tried – and failed – to close The Arches last year after the death of Regane  MacColl, 17, who collapsed there after taking an ecstasy-style pill. 
But the recent decision by licensing chiefs means that this is the second weekend the nightclub has been closed, prompting its fans to launch protest campaigns.
Around 37,000 people have signed an online petition at Change.org, urging the council to reinstate the club’s licence.
The Scottish Society of Playwrights have also published an open letter warning The Arches’ future as a valued arts and theatre destination would be jeopardised without funds generated by the nightclub business.
Judge Jules, who has played the venue around 30 times in the past 15 years, said: “I don’t get where the police are coming from with this. If closing The Arches was going to solve a problem, that would be fair enough. But it isn’t.
“If you go anywhere there are large gatherings of young people, you will have drugs. Unfortunately, there will be people who react badly to that situation.
“Closing the venue does not make that go away, it just moves it somewhere else. You may as well start shutting pubs down.
“That is in no way to belittle anyone’s suffering. I have utter sympathy for the family of the girl who died and that has to be the caveat to any argument. It should never be belittled. But in my 25-plus years DJ-ing, I’ve seen many clubs where their health and safety measures could be tightened up. The Arches wasn’t one of them.”
The club came under fire again in March after 26 people were reported for drugs and alcohol offences in one night. A woman also collapsed outside the venue and was rushed to hospital.
But Clyde 1 breakfast DJ George Bowie, who was hosting his GBX club at the venue that night, called for the police and licensing officials to think again.
He said: “It’s like there’s been a mission to shut the place down. The people involved need to sit down together and sort this out.”
Police Scotland Chief Inspector Mark Sutherland said the possibility of an appeal meant he could not reveal many of the details presented to the licensing board.
But he added: “It is my firm view that the frequency and volume of incidents at The Arches nightclub would have resulted in fatal consequences had we not acted.”
Glasgow City Council said: “The Licensing Board make their decisions only after detailed consideration of all facts.
“They remain committed to supporting The Arches as one of Glasgow’s leading cultural venues.”
 Try your hand at our news quiz 

