 
TONIGHT'S latest televised leaders' debate comes live from central London with just three weeks to go until polling day.
The debate will involve the leaders of the five main opposition parties - Labour leader Ed Miliband, SNP leader Nicola Sturgeon, Plaid Cymru's Leanne Wood, Green Party chief Natalie Bennett and UKIP's Nigel Farage - and is hosted by David Dimblebly.
It's the latest in a series of fiery TV clashes between party leaders leading up to next month's General Election.
You can recap last week's Scottish leaders' debate on the BBC here
And look back at the first Scottish leaders debate, hosted by stv, here
For all the latest General Election news go here
Our coverage starts at 7pm this evening with the debate running from 8-9.30pm.
A very warm welcome to our 'Challenger's Debate' live blog covering the second UK-Wide debate of the General Election campaign. This features all the leaders of the parties not currently in Government, so no Nick Clegg or David Cameron. Keep it at the Daily Record for all the thrills, spills, analysis and funny moments (if there are any) from tonight's debate
A look at the leaders of the Nationalist parties who feature tonight, Leeanne Wood of Plaid Cymru, and Scotland's own First Minister Nicola Sturgeon. 

.@LeanneWood with @NicolaSturgeon ahead of tonight's #BBCDebate #Plaid15 @Plaid_Cymru @theSNP #snp pic.twitter.com/6AL1uhRTsE


Yes as always we are keen to hear your views so give us a tweet at Record_Politics. And if you don't follow that account then you should! It's politics news, and occasional funny gifs. What more do you want?

There will be a MYSTERY PRIZE for our 500th follower if we can get there tonight #BBCDebate http://t.co/jMr9doNbVC pic.twitter.com/ynoX2i60Pn


Well it will certainly be an interesting debate tonight. Nigel Farage will cut a lonely figure for sure, no-one will try and appease him at all, and he will typically rail against what he perceives as a consensus, and what everyone else thinks is just not being bigoted. Nicola Sturgeon will be gunning for Ed Miliband, but whether she can bring in Natalie Bennett and Leeanne Wood into a gang beating for the Labour leader remains to be seen.
As something of a warm up for the debate, Ed Miliband is giving an interview with ITV that makes him more palatable to the electorate. He is currently showing off his pool skills. Is HE a viable Prime Minister? He is certainly the only person on tonight's panel who can be the leader of the country
That, if you didn't know, was the noise of a chicken. Of course that's why we won't have David Cameron tonight, after he bounced the broadcasters into the rather sorry debate situation we have now. Nick Clegg is rather unhappy about not being asked along to defend the Con-Dem Government's record, but well, he is Nick Clegg. 
Legendary broadcaster David Dimbleby is in the chair tonight, and he will give each leader a few minutes at the start, before fielding the questions. There will then by statements from each leader on the question, and ten minutes of open warfare, sorry, debate
We are UNDERWAY
David Dimbleby introduces the 'challengers' and explains that the questions have been submitted in advance. He also mentions the controversy of the spin room, where the Tories are allowed to give their reaction, despite their leader chickening out of the debate. 
The leader of Plaid Cymru is first up, and doesn't just focus on Wales. She says that the austerity myth has been busted, and that cuts are a choice. She pledges to work with progressive MPs from all parties. She concludes by saying she will work with all parties.
Well when Nigel Farage is calling you farcical, you are probably doing something wrong. The UKIP leader says that the election has become about uncosted giveaways. Predictably, he says that immigration and Europe is to blame. He says he is saying what many people are thinking at home. If he is about to say 'That Nigel Farage talks utter garbage' - he is probably right.
An early sign of Ed Miliband's intentions as he sets out his stall as the sensible economic voice. The Labour leader says that there will be NO extra borrowing. 
Nicola Sturgeon trying to build on her strong performance in the last UK debate. She starts with a pitch to Scots specifically, saying the SNP will stand up for the country's interest. She then broadens her view, saying that so long as we are in the Union, the UK will benefit from anti-austerity SNP. 
Natalie Bennett didn't have a very good debate last time, and it's a shaky start from the Green leader as she stumbles over some of her policy. She praises the record of her predecessor, the Greens' only MP Caroline Lucas. The real question is whether Ms Lucas would use this platform better?
Our first audience question as a young lady in the audience says that with so many of the panel wanting to increase borrowing, is that fair on the next generation? Nicola Sturgeon is first up, and says that waiting longer to pay off the deficit is a price worth paying for 'real action to lift people out of poverty'
Ed Miliband up next, pledging to balance the books, and says that he will do so in a different way to David Cameron. He says that Labour's plan for fair taxes will protect key areas, but that spending will fall in different departments. 
Natalie Bennett seems to have misunderstood the question. She is talking to the original questioner about her personal debt, ie with tuition fees, but the question was more about the National Debt, which is of course incurred by Government.
Nigel Farage, in all his ruddy faced jowly glory, goes a full 13 seconds without mentioning Europe or Immigrants, so he wins a pint of real ale. He says UKIP will end a reliance on debt. Leeanne Wood is last, but she says very similar things to what Nicola Sturgeon does, railing against a perceived austerity agenda. 
It seems the UKIP leader has completely chucked Scotland, saying that he will stop the amount of money going 'over Hadrians Wall'. 
A straight fight now between Farage and Miliband, with the Labour leader saying UKIP's plans don't stack up. Farage then demands to hear what cuts Miliband would make. Miliband says that UKIP would double the spending cuts. 

