A DISABLED artist has been left homeless after fire bugs torched the World War II canal boat where she lives.
Celine Tessler - who had a leg amputated following a motorbike crash - also lost her specially-built prosthetic limb in the blaze.
The 43-year-old said her life had been “destroyed” by the arsonists who left the vessel gutted by flames.
The fire was started in the early hours of morning but luckily Celine was not onboard.
She believes she would have been burnt alive if she had been sleeping in the bedroom area where it was started.
 

The boat almost sank following the inferno and needs more than &pound;10,000 of repairs - but Celine did not have fire insurance.
Now fellow canal boaters in Edinburgh have banded together in a fundraising drive to help her save her home of eight years.
Fire ripped through the boat two weeks ago while it was moored at its usual spot on the Union Canal in the city’s Fountainbridge.
Most of Celine’s personal belongings were engulfed in the blaze, including precious mementoes like poetry books her late gran left her and childhood photos.
She said: “I’ve been left with the clothes on my back. My whole world is gone. I feel lost and numb.
 

“I lost my Flex-Foot prosthesis, which was specially made for me in America, and cost thousands. I only have my basic NHS leg now which isn’t too great.
“I don’t know how the people who did this can sleep at night.”
Celine was badly injured in a bike crash Dunblane in 1993 while she a pillion passenger.
After doctors battled for four years to save her left leg, it had to be amputated below the knee after she contracted the MRSA superbug.
In 2007 she enrolled at Edinburgh College of Art to study glassblowing and bought the boat to live on, christening it Barnyboy after a horse she rode at the Riding for the Disabled charity following her amputation.
Fellow boaters spotted a gang of youths causing trouble on the canal in the hours before the attack. Celine said other owners found scorch marks on their vessels.
She had been working late at her art studio, where she produces stained glass and jewellery, and arrived home at around 2am on Saturday, May 16.
Celine said: “It’s just fortunate that I don’t work 9 to 5. I would have had my leg off to sleep and with all the smoke I don’t think I could’ve escaped.
“When I pulled up in my car I saw blue flashing lights then a firefighter told me they’d just put out a boat fire.
“It was total shock when I saw it was mine. It didn’t seem real.”
The fire spread quickly from the bedroom along the wooden ceiling, ravaging everything in its path.
The boat - built as a ‘bomb scowl’ to carry torpedoes along the Forth and the Clyde during the war - needs to be entirely rebuilt internally.
Celine said: “The boat nearly capsized after the fire, but Scottish Canals got three pumps here in time and got the water out before it sank.
“Another boat owner has kindly let me stay with him but it could be six months or longer before mine is repaired, if I can even get the money.
“But it’s overwhelming how people on the canal have come together to try and help.”
Supporters set up a JustGiving page where donations can be made to help save Celine’s boat at https://crowdfunding.justgiving.com/barneyboy?utm_id=34
A Police Scotland spokesman said: “Enquiries are ongoing into a suspicious fire on a boat moored near Lower Gilmore Place which suffered major damage.”
