A 15-year-old youth sprayed his mother with lighter fuel and set fire to her hair as she lay in bed a court has heard.
At Kilmarnock Sheriff Court on Monday the boy – who cannot be named for legal reasons – pleaded guilty to assaulting his mother to the danger of her life in the family home in Newmilns in January.
He also admitted acting in a threatening or abusive manner on the same occasion.
Andrew Lazarrin, prosecuting, said that, on the night of the attack, the teenager was returned to the house by police and “put in the care of his mother”.
When she told him she was going to bed, he responded: “Don’t go to sleep. I’m going to burn you in bed.”
And a few minutes later he went into his mother’s room, sprayed lighter fuel over her and set fire to her hair.
Mr Lazarrin said: “As she was putting out the flames, the accused punched and kicked her to the head and body.”
Her son then told her he was leaving and said: “Don’t bother contacting the police. I have cut the wires.”
Mr Lazarrin said that the woman fled in her night clothes to a friend’s house where she was seen to be “chalk white and in a state of shock”.
Police went to the house at 1.50am and found the boy inside.
He challenged the officers to fight.
He ran up the stairs, pulled off a piece of banister and threw it at the police.
Mr Lazarrin told the court: “He then found a baseball bat and presented it towards the officers.
“One of the officers drew his baton and two others drew their CS sprays. The accused was then restrained and handcuffed.”
Police later recovered a can of lighter fuel and found that the telephone line had, indeed, been cut. The victim suffered singeing to her hair and bruising.
She did not, however, require medical treatment.
“In this case, the danger to life is a potential danger,” said Mr Lazarrin.
Hugh Duncan, defending, said that background reports were clearly required.
He told Sheriff Alistair Watson: “He is 15 and currently detained within secure care.
“At this stage I wouldn’t propose to say anything further.”
Sheriff Watson deferred sentence until June 5 and called for a criminal justice social work report, the advice of the children’s panel and a psychiatric report.
Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

