WAITING time delays for cancer and other life-&shy;saving tests have more than doubled in a year, according to official NHS figures.
The number of patients waiting longer than the recommended six-week limit for one of eight key diagnostic tests increased from 2472 to 5314 between March last year and this year, according to the &shy;statistics uncovered by Labour.
A six-week target was set by &shy;Scottish ministers in 2009 to help the early detection of conditions such as cancer.
But the number of people waiting more than the &shy;recommended limit for a CT scan – that detect brain tumours as well as heart and &shy;kidney damage – rose from 22 to 200 in the space of a year.
And there were delays in MRI scans for 895 patients in March, compared with 278 at the same time last year.
Scottish Labour health &shy;spokeswoman Jenny Marra said: “These targets are there to ensure people with potentially serious conditions get the benefit of early detection and have the best &shy;possible chance of a full recovery.
“But more and more patients are having to wait longer than the six weeks.
“Our NHS is being overwhelmed because there simply aren’t enough resources going in to cope with the targets being set by the Scottish Government in Edinburgh.
“They took the decision to squeeze the NHS budget even harder than the Tories and the consequence has been people being made to wait longer and longer.
“There is no point setting &shy;targets unless you resource our hospitals properly. This has to be addressed urgently or patient care will &shy;continue to suffer.”
The eight tests are upper and lower endoscopy, colonoscopy, cystoscopy, CT scans, MRI scans, barium studies and non-obstetric ultrasounds.
Health Secretary Shona Robison said: “It is this SNP Government who have increased Scotland’s health budget to a record high of more than &pound;12billion, including an increase of more than &pound;409million in the last year alone.
“We have met our commitment to increase NHS Scotland’s revenue budget in real terms every year, and that has seen a five per cent real terms increase in the five years to 2015/16.
“Waiting times are at historically low levels in Scotland and the &shy;latest figures show more than 750,000 people have been treated in under 12 weeks under this government’s treatment time guarantee.
“In contrast, in September 2005 there were over 24,000 patients with waits of over six months, over 12,000 waiting over one year and over 4000 waiting over two years.
“Our hard-working NHS staff ensured that 91.2 per cent patients had one of eight key diagnostic tests within six weeks according to the latest figures. This is against the background of increased demand.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

