 By Chris McQuade 
CELTIC legend Frank McGarvey has raised nearly &pound;4000 for a food bank – by auctioning off one of his most prized jerseys.
Generous Frank, 59, sold the Hoops top he wore in the 100th Scottish Cup Final in 1985 on Ebay.
And it’s raised &pound;3800 for Glasgow’s Maryhill Food bank and other food charities in the city.
Frank said he was inspired to sell his prized possession after reading an article in the Record about Celtic founder Brother Walfrid’s work with the needy.
The ex-striker said: “Brother Walfrid founded Celtic to feed the hungry and unemployed people of Glasgow in 1887.
“I found it incredible that in 2015 there are still people going hungry and being fed by food banks.
“The top was lying about my house doing nothing and because someone has come along and paid &pound;3800, it means the food banks in Glasgow will be piled high this week, so I’m very happy about that.
“The response it received was unbelievable.
“Brother Walfrid inspired me to do this. It took a lot for me to sell the strip, I have had it for 30 years and it was very important that it went to a good cause.
“There were two people in me, one wanted to keep the strip and one wanted to sell it for a worthy cause.
 “I can’t think of a better cause as I think that Glasgow people are very generous and it was  important for me to try to keep the money here.” 
 

Proud Frank, who was Scotland’s most expensive footballer for a short time, played 245 times for Celtic over five years, scoring 113 goals.
He netted the winner six minutes from full-time in the 1985 cup final against Dundee United – the 100th final held.
He was sold by the club the following Monday to St Mirren where he had started his illustrious career.
Celtic fan Dominic Shannon bought the strip and said: “I’m over the moon.
The money will be split between Greater Maryhill Foodbank, Drumchapel, Crookston Community and Castlemilk Foodbank.
 ● Scotland legend Jim Baxter’s rare No6 shirt from the 2-0 humbling of England at Hampden in 1962 could fetch as much as &pound;4000 at auction next month. 
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

