UNDER-FIRE Scots football clubs must show exactly how they are spending public money on youth development or risk the future of our game, say campaigners.
MSP Chic Brodie is to ask the Scottish Government for a full audit of the public money given to the country’s &shy;senior football clubs for youth development.
He spoke out days after the publication of a damning report by Scotland’s Commissioner for Children and Young People Tam Baillie.
In it, the commissioner is highly critical of Club Academy Scotland, the pro-youth set up who are managed by the Scottish FA for clubs in membership of the SPFL.
All of Scotland’s top clubs, including Celtic and Rangers, have teams of boys from the age of 10 upwards in the pro-youth system.
In any one season there are in excess of 2500 players involved, all aspiring to be the next Lionel Messi.
Only a tiny percentage of them will go on to become professional footballers.
Brodie said: “I commend the commissioner for his report. It was tough, fair and focused on the issues.
“There has to be a culture change. Yes, we want to be successful as a footballing nation but there is almost a Dickensian approach to this in the way senior clubs treat children.
“You cannot create this expectation, this dream, and then exploit it for the benefit of profit and money in the football clubs.”
Even Celtic and Rangers have criticised their fellow clubs for creating what they called a “children’s transfer market”.
This related to the substantial “training compensation” fees which were introduced for boys as young as 12 and 13 who move between clubs.
In his report, published last week, the commissioner said the evidence showed Club Academy Scotland was skewed overwhelmingly in favour of the clubs.
Baillie said: “The current system recognises the investment of private companies – the clubs – in developing young players.
“However, the system does not recognise the investment of players and their families – emotionally, practically and financially – in developing young players’ football skills.
“This imbalance is not recognised in terms of mutual rights and obligations.
“Professional youth football in Scotland needs to undergo a significant attitudinal change.”
Baillie has made several recommendations to make the system fairer for young players and their parents.
They include giving boys the option to leave a club with 28 days’ notice – as they are entitled to do if playing recreational football.
He also wants to ban the three-year rolling registration which gives a club the right to retain a 15-year-old boy until he is 17 – with the player having no similar option.
Baillie added: “If children or young people want to play football for a professional club they have no choice but to sign these agreements.
 

“Any attempt at a later date to challenge the authority of these, or to claim rights and redress, might directly threaten a young person’s chances of playing football professionally.
“Is not signing really an option for a child or young person who dreams of playing football for Scotland?”
 MSP Brodie will now use a members’ debate at Holyrood on Tuesday to raise the commissioner’s  concerns. 
He said: “I was vice-convener of the petitions committee two years ago. One of the first petitions that came up was one on youth football which had first been submitted, believe it or not, in 2010.
“It appears there is no regulatory process in the monitoring of what goes on in the clubs. It seems to be a total anarchy.
“Some of the responses some of the clubs made to questions posed by the petitions committee in 2011 were all over the place. Celtic and Rangers were very constructive when called to give evidence, but I was less than impressed with the SPFL representative, as well as a youth development official from one of our other major clubs.
“The SFA, the SPFL and the senior clubs have to get together and put these boys, and increasingly girls, at the heart of what we are trying to achieve as a footballing nation.
“If they are not prepared to put their own house in order my recommendation will be that the Sports Minister and sportscotland take a much more hands-on approach.
“There has to be a very strong acceptance by the Scottish Government of the commissioner’s report.”
Kieran Doran was living the dream when he scored for Scotland’s under-16 side in a 1-1 draw against Italy in April 2012.
The friendly in Milan was the second of two games in which the former St Mirren youth player represented his country.
Three years later, Kieran has turned his back on becoming a professional footballer. The bright 18-year-old has just completed his first year of studying medicine at Edinburgh University.
Yet his hopes of playing football for the university, or even an amateur side, have been stymied. St Mirren refused to release him from a three-and-a-half year professional contract he signed when he was 16.
The decision has sparked a potentially bitter stand-off, leading to Kieran lodging a complaint with HMRC.
He claims he wasn’t paid the minimum wage by Saints, which could render his contract null and void.
The club dispute this.
 

Kieran said: “Despite what has happened, the majority of my time at St Mirren was enjoyable. I joined their pro-youth set-up when I was 10, so I spent a lot of my life there.
“My concerns are not so much with St Mirren as with the whole pro-youth set-up in Scotland.
“I have read the children’s commissioner’s report and I agree with the points made.
“There is too much emphasis on what is in the clubs’ best interests, rather than the player.
“The reason there aren’t more complaints is nearly all the boys see football as their career path.
“They don’t want to jeopardise that, whereas I have nothing to lose in coming out with my story. When I was 10, being a professional footballer was all that was in my mind as well.
“It was when I was 14 or 15 I started to think football was a risk and not the most secure of careers because of injuries.
“It’s hard to reach the level to make a good living, especially in Scottish football.
“For two years it was a toss-up between football and medicine.
“Most of the boys are living the dream and I think the clubs take advantage of that.
“So many are in the system at any one time, and most don’t realise they won’t make it.”
Last year the Sunday Mail reported on the case of former Scottish Schoolboys’ captain Chris Truesdale.
Hamilton Accies threatened to demand compensation for the then 17-year-old because of a form he signed aged 14.
A legal case against the club was dropped because the family weren’t awarded legal aid. Hamilton said they were acting within SFA and SPFL rules.
While the clubs decide what these rules are, the commissioner wants children and their parents to have input too.

