 A PAISLEY hairdresser fears she will go out of business after council chiefs ordered her to close her salon without notice...so they can demolish the building next door. 
 Louise Farquhar-Yates, who runs the Jo Graham Hair Studio, in Wellmeadow Street, was in a state of shock yesterday after Renfrewshire Council told her to shut the business for at least six weeks. 
Council workers turned up on Tuesday to clear what’s left of a fire-ravaged building next to the salon and they insist the sudden closure is necessary as there is a risk of falling debris.
However, Louise is fuming about the lack of notice, which means she will have to cancel all of the salon’s appointments and has left her staff with nothing to do.
 She told the Paisley Daily Express: “This will ruin my business – a business I have spent years building up. 
“I was given no notice about this closure and it means I have to cancel all my appointments and clear the shop of fixtures such as mirrors and chairs. I also have three members of staff who won’t have jobs to do. Worst of all, it means I’ll be letting down our customers.”
It was in August last year that a blaze ripped through the Shopsmart grocers on the ground floor of 25 Wellmeadow Street, with flames quickly spreading to the flats upstairs.
 Bulldozers were brought in to flatten parts of the building and the site was fenced off but, in the months that followed, attempts by council chiefs to convince the owners to clear up the mess were unsuccessful. 
That resulted in the council serving a Dangerous Buildings Notice on the owners and, as that has also been ignored, a clean-up squad has now been sent in.
 

Once the work has been carried out, council bosses will hit the owners with a bill – but, in the meantime, 38-year-old Louise, of Gallowhill, Paisley, has been caught in the middle.
Louise, who leases the salon from Bruce Properties, said: “I’ve worked here since I left school more than 20 years ago and I took over as owner nine years ago. Since then, I’ve worked hard to build up a customer base but I don’t know what we will have left after this.
“I just wish I’d been given prior notice, to give me a chance to try to sort something out.”
A council spokesman said support will be offered to Louise to help her cope with the disruption to her business.
He added: “The second-storey chimney at 27 Wellmeadow Street is immediately dangerous. If it collapses, the rubble will either fall into the dormer rooms below or onto the pavement in front of the hair studio.
“It is too dangerous for anyone to remain in 27 Wellmeadow Street until the chimney and gables are made safe. This is why Ms Yates and the other residents of 27 Wellmeadow Street are being evacuated.
“We sympathise with Ms Yates and are offering her support. While Ms Yates is evacuated, she will no longer have to pay rent to her landlord. Our business support team has also been in touch and the council has suggested alternative premises for her to use.
“We are doing our best to limit the impact. However, it should be remembered that the council has stepped in as a last resort to remove this eyesore.
“The council had to serve a Dangerous Buildings Notice due to the lack of progress being made towards clearing the site by the owners and their insurers. This notice required 25 Wellmeadow Street to be demolished and the site cleared by May 22.
“As the council has no automatic right of entry, it was only when the deadline on this notice expired that we could start work. It was at this stage that we were able to fully survey all of the buildings for the first time and the dangerous condition of the chimney at 27 Wellmeadow Street became apparent.”
 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

