 THE PILOT of a small plane which crashed and killed a passenger was not properly trained and had unrecorded modifications, according to investigators. 
 The light aircraft crashed moments after take-off from runway 27 at Isle of Bute Airstrip, near Kinglass, at 2.40pm on August 9 last year . 
Both the pilot – who has not been named – and his passenger, Thomas McGowan, 63, suffered severe burns in the crash.
Mr McGowan later died in hospital from his injuries.
The Air Accident Investigation Branch (AAIB) had concluded there was no evidence that the 53-year-old pilot had completed the additional training necessary to fly the single-engined Sportcruiser G-EWZZ.
The plane also had unrecorded modifications which would have likely put it over the maximum weight including a new propellor and an autopilot.
The pilot had claimed the engine had cut out and the aircraft was unable to climb, leading him to attempt an emergency landing.
Instead the plane struck the ground and overturned before coming to rest upside down in a ditch and catching fire.
The friends had flown from Strathaven to Bute for a lunch with other pilots, and were the last to take off.
The AAIB report into the incident noted that the pilot had obtained his National Private Pilot’s License in April 2010 and accumulated 100 flying hours on the Sportcruiser prior to the crash.
However, investigators said that while his logbook showed he had “met the ongoing validity requirements” to pilot a simple single-engine Aeroplane (SSEA), this rating “requires additional differences in training to operate aircraft with variable pitch propellers”, which the Sportscruiser had been fitted with.
The report continued: “Such training is recorded by an entry and signature in the pilot’s logbook by a suitably qualified instructor; there was no record that this additional training had been completed.”
The pilot had also disabled the stall warning system due to a number of “spurious warnings”.
However, investigators said the level of fire damage to the aircraft meant it was impossible to determine whether the engine had lost power and caused the crash.

