 POLICE in Aberdeen have been praised by a force watchdog for reducing crime rates in the city. 
Targeted plans, such as Operation Oak, led to a 64 per cent reduction in thefts from cars, a 32 per cent reduction in serious assaults and a 35 per cent reduction in robberies in the city, the force said.
 A review of policing in the region was carried out in January by HM Inspector of Constabulary in Scotland Derek Penman as part of a programme to assess all 14 local divisions of Police Scotland . 
The force in Aberdeen city is the smallest division in Scotland in geographic terms and the second smallest in terms of resourcing, but morale among officers is said to be good.
One concern raised was over officer numbers, with problems recruiting and retaining staff.
The inspectorate said a number of experienced officers have left to work in the oil and gas sector, and that the &quot;perception of well-paid jobs in that industry has presented challenges in terms of local recruitment&quot;.
Mr Penman said: &quot;People in Aberdeen are less likely to be the victim of a crime than in previous years, and where they are a victim of crime, those responsible are more likely to be identified and prosecuted than previously.
&quot;We also found morale among officers to be good. Senior officers are approachable, staff feel valued, good work is recognised and there is good communication within the division.
&quot;Aberdeen city is the smallest division in Scotland in geographic terms and the second smallest in terms of resourcing.
&quot;The local commander employs a policing model where there is no distinction between 'response' and 'community' officers with officers performing a dual role. This is well-suited to Aberdeen and meets local needs.
&quot;A major concern for the division has been its ability to recruit and retain staff.
&quot;It has suffered a proportionately greater loss of officers than any other division in Scotland, with several experienced officers leaving to join the oil and gas sector.
&quot;The perception of well-paid jobs in that industry has presented challenges in terms of local recruitment.&quot;
The inspection made four recommendations covering scrutiny committees and guidance on body-worn cameras.
A separate review of custody facilities was also carried out, with inspectors making eight recommendations relating to training, the use of interpreters, risk assessments, segregation of areas used by male and female detainees, washing facilities and access for those with mobility issues.
Chief Superintendent Adrian Watson said: &quot;I am naturally delighted that the HIMCS has recognised the efforts of our team in Aberdeen city and the excellent work and partnerships that have been built up over the last few years that have been both locally and nationally recognised.
&quot;We understand only too well that we cannot deliver in isolation and Police Scotland's successes in this city have been built on the 'Team Aberdeen' approach, be it through the enthusiasm and professionalism of the police officers and police staff that work across Aberdeen or the unstinting support we receive from a wide range of partners in the city and across the wider north-east.&quot;

