FRAUDSTER Barry Hughes hired lawyers to demand Leeds United pay him &pound;250,000 for his role in the transfer of Scotland striker Ross McCormack.
 Hughes, who denies he is a football agent, claimed the cash after McCormack signed for  Fulham in a &pound;10.75million deal. 
The 36-year-old former boxer enlisted Bell Park Kerridge solicitors last year in an attempt to get the money when Leeds owner Massimo Cellino refused.
Hughes’s lawyer demanded the sum be paid into his HSBC bank account within seven days of a demand letter which was sent in July.
The letter claimed the Yorkshire club had agreed to pay Hughes the sum on completion of the deal.
Hughes went bankrupt last December with a tax debt totalling &pound;10million. He is also facing a &pound;1.2million proceeds of crime case.
 Documents seen by the Sunday Mail show Hughes billed Cellino over the deal – and used the  Carlisle-based law firm to chase payment. 
The FA are reportedly looking at how the club and Scottish businessman Derek Day – a licensed Fifa football agent who worked on the deal via his firm Shadow Brands – handled the transfer.
Day denies any wrongdoing while Leeds last week said they had “no idea” whether they faced investigation.
Day said: “I had a contract with Leeds that was lodged with the FA for work that I carried out and was paid for accordingly. There has been no contact from the FA in relation to any investigation and I do not expect any as there was no wrongdoing. I am a fully registered FA intermediary.
“Shadow Brands has no connection with Barry Hughes and no money was paid to Barry Hughes. Any suggestion that they did is incorrect.”
 

We revealed in February how Hughes had been involved in another multi-million-pound transfer.
In a picture posted on Twitter, Crystal Palace star James McArthur named Hughes as his agent and said he played a part in his &pound;7million move from Wigan.
Bankrupt Hughes is also embroiled in a court battle to have cash seized under the Proceeds of Crime Act.
The former boxing promoter was sentenced to 43 months in prison last year for fraud and money laundering. The sentence was later overturned and he was ordered to pay a &pound;45,000 fine.
 Hughes’s lawyer Paul Reid declined to comment. But in  February he said: “My client is employed by a number of agents who represent elite sportsmen, including footballers. 
“He doesn’t operate as their agent but as an employee.”
The FA refused to confirm if they were investigating any matters relating to the transfer.
 Paolo Lombardi, a consultant with sports law experts Couchmans and a former players’ agents chief with Fifa, said: “As a matter of principle, football associations could only look into matters  relating to, and impose measures on, licensed agents. An individual who was not licensed does not fall under the jurisdiction of any national association, in the event of a domestic transfer, or Fifa, in an international transfer.” 
If Hughes received the money as McCormack’s adviser, Leeds may have contravened the then FA rules banning payments to unregistered agents.
The agent licensing system was scrapped by Fifa last month and it is now the duty of each national football association to supervise so-called “intermediaries”.
Cellino responded to the allegations by text last week, saying: “I don’t know many people in England. If I did something wrong, I didn’t do it on purpose.”
Leeds United spokesman Ryan Parrish said: “I have no idea if the club are under investigation.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

