A DAD who was conned into thinking his daughter was dead is planning to start a new life with her away from Scotland.
The Record revealed on Saturday how Steven North was the victim of a devious plan hatched by his callous ex and her male friend.
Evil Vikki Gilmore convinced the 34-year-old she’d aborted their daughter Brooke – then registered her with friend Chris Yates, who is gay, as the father.
The pair are facing jail after they were found guilty at Perth Sheriff Court on Friday of the scheme which left Steven in mourning for three years.
Now the dad is thinking of relocating his family – Brooke, wife Dana and son Tyrone, three – to Ireland or England from their Perth home.
He says he wants give Brooke, who is now four, a fresh start.
 

Steven added: “Brooke has been deeply affected by what has happened and it will take a hell of a lot of support to get her through it.
“She has trouble expressing her feelings and emotions and I think much of the trauma is bubbling under the surface – she can’t seem to understand what has happened.
“It’s heartbreaking to see but we will help every way we can.
“That process has to start with us providing a loving, stable, home environment in which she can learn to trust people again.
“I think that may be best away from Scotland, either in Ireland or down in England to be closer to our relatives.
“This whole affair has dominated our lives for the last three years.” Gilmore, 29, gave birth to Brooke without Steven’s knowledge in February 2011 and gave her to Yates, 35, who wanted a child of his own.
 

As soon as Steven discovered Brooke was alive he launched his three-year campaign for justice.
He sent numerous complaints to social services in Perth and Glasgow and Police Scotland about their handling of his case.
Last year, his tireless efforts bore fruit when he won full custody and legal rights of Brooke.
But he said Scotland’s lawlords have to overhaul family legislation in light of his case.
He said: “Scotland’s family law system needs a root-and-branch change. It is stacked against biological dads and is at least 20 or 30 years behind the times.”
Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

