A POST OFFICE has come under fire after its owners put &quot;racist&quot; golly dolls in their window display close to a primary school.
Henry Cruickshank, 35, said he was horrified to see the &quot;brand new&quot; dolls up for sale after he passed the shop with his one-year-old son.
The controversial dolls are a black caricature with large red lips, afro-style hair and dressed in traditional minstrel clothing.
They are on full display at the Pillar Box Post Office in Troon, South Ayrshire, where owners have labelled them &quot;golly dolls&quot;.
Henry, a father-of-one, branded the sale &quot;unacceptable&quot; and slammed the shop owners who allegedly became &quot;aggressive&quot;when he confronted them.
 

He said: &quot;It's just so shocking in this day and age to see something that is so obviously racist on sale in public.
&quot;It's about 200 metres away from a school. It seems sad that this is being brought to a new generation who could grow up thinking that this is OK.
&quot;I burst out laughing when I first saw them. It was just so surprising to see newly made Golly dolls on display.
&quot;It's a bit appalling that someone is looking through a catalogue and ordering these in - unaware of the modern day connotations.
&quot;I think Troon can seem a bit stuck in the past but this is like something from about 40 years ago.
&quot;It's completely unacceptable to be selling these and having them on full view to the public walking by.&quot;
Henry was speaking to the shop owner, who denied there was anything wrong with the dolls.
He said: &quot;He refused to see there was anything wrong with it.
&quot;He then criticised my parenting. He said my child would grow up to be a narrow-minded person. It was quite an aggressive and dismissive conversation really.&quot;
The shop owner refused to comment.
He said: &quot;I'm far too busy. No comment.&quot;
Local SNP councillor and former chair of South Ayrshire Council's equality forum Nan McFarlane said: &quot;I can assure you that the shop owner is not, in any way, racist.
&quot;He is of an age where they wouldn't even give that sort of thing a second thought and definitely hasn't meant any malice by selling them.
&quot;I'll defend the shop owner because I know him and know what he's like. They run a good business and are not setting out to offend people.
&quot;He's selling them on the basis that they sell well and that the public come in specifically to request them.
&quot;Though, I must say that I do not approve of this sort of thing and I'm surprised that these dolls are even still manufactured.&quot;
Many traders have come under fire for selling them in recent years - including the Queen who pulled them from sale at her Sandringham Estate shop.
The golliwog had infamously been the mascot of Paisley product Robertson's Jam until it was ditched in 2002.
Shop owner Tommy Lynch, 66, of Troon, said he did not see any problem in selling the Golly dolls but added that he would most likely not restock them.
He said: &quot;There is no racist element to it. I don't think they are offensive. If it was causing upset we would not be selling them.
&quot;They represent an item which nostalgically has been given with love to children and grandchildren through generations.
&quot;We are just selling a product which we have been selling for a number of years. It's a product our customers have been asking us to stock.
&quot;We've been selling them on and off for ten years now. I am not going to ban them. I'm a 66-year-old shop owner who is providing what his customers are asking for.
&quot;This is the first time someone has complained. It's just one man who has a problem with the Golly dolls, the rest of the town do not find it abhorrent.
&quot;The fact that this man has complained about the matter is causing us a great deal of distress.
&quot;I don't want publicity like this.There is no legal ban on selling these and I'm not doing anything illegal. I'm just annoyed about the whole thing.
&quot;We have a limited stock of these things and when they are resold I will not restock them.&quot;

