UP to 1600 jobs are to be axed at 12 nuclear plants in the UK.
The job losses will impact on two Scottish plants which are being decommissioned, Chapelcross near Dumfires and Hunterston A in Ayrshire.
The announcement that between 1,400 and 1,600 jobs will be lost at the 12 plants comes following the merger of Magnox Ltd and Research Sites Restoration Ltd on April 1.
Magnox had previously administered 10 of the nuclear sites, while RSR was decommissioning the other two.
There is no word on how many jobs will be lost at the Scottish plants, but job losses are a consequence of the decommissioning process.
At the moment there are 422 full-time equivalent jobs at Chapelcross and 238 at Hunterston A.
Of the 12 plants across the UK, 11 have already stopped generating electricity.
The other, Wylfa in Wales is due to stop generating power at the end of this year.
The jobs losses will come into effect by September next year.
The redundancies will affect staff, agency and contract workers.
The 12 nuclear power sites managed by Magnox are Chapelcross and Hunterston along with Berkeley, Gloucestershire; Bradwell, Essex; Dungeness A, Kent; Harwell, Oxfordshire; Hinkley Point A, Somerset; Oldbury, Gloucestershire; Sizewell A, Suffolk; Trawsfynydd, North Wales; Winfrith, Dorset; and Wylfa, Anglesey, North Wales.
Magnox said:”These proposed reductions arise from planned step downs in the work programme at a number of sites and the implementation of a more streamlined operating model for delivering decommissioning.
“We will seek wherever possible for these reductions to be through voluntary means and we will endeavour to retrain staff in roles where we are currently reliant on agency resources.
“We are now going through a period of formal collective consultation with our recognised trade unions and individual consultation and counselling staff before an appropriate best fit exercise begins.”
The Nuclear Decommissioning Authority said: “The NDA has been assured that efforts will be undertaken to mitigate the impact of any job losses through an emphasis on voluntary redundancy, re-skilling and the potential for alternative employment in Magnox Limited’s parent companies, Cavendish Nuclear and Fluor Corporation.”
Chapelcross was opened in 1959 and was tasked with providing weapons grade plutonium for the UK’s nuclear deterrent, but later generated electricity for the national grid.
Decommissioning began in 2004.
Hunterston A was opned in 1964. Both its reactors had closed down by 1990.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

