TWO Asda workers opened a mystery package – and found &pound;7500 in cash from an anonymous well-wisher.
John Fawns and Linda Anderson were left stunned when they opened the brown paper parcel to find it stuffed with cash and a note to say the money was for “the poor children”.
 The package had been left two weeks earlier beside a customer service desk in the clothing department at the store in Edinburgh’s Chesser area. 
It lay untouched because staff believed it was a box of price stickers.
But when John, who was preparing to put new stickers out, moved the parcel he spotted the note on the back of it.
John, 53, said: “I came on shift that day and picked it up because it was time for me to put new stickers out.
“That’s when I saw the note written on the back mentioning charity. No one had lifted it up before to see that.
 

“Linda was passing so I told her I had something for her because she organises the store’s charity work.
“We decided to open it and found two rows of neatly stacked notes. I was shocked to see all that money, but we had to call the manager over because we’re not allowed to handle cash on the shop floor.”
Linda 62, said: “As soon as I saw the note I thought it was an older person who wrote it. The handwriting was quite shaky and the way it was wrapped in brown paper and string suggested to me it was someone older.
“But I thought it was some George clothes inside for a child because the package was quite soft.
 “When I saw all the money, you could have scraped me off the floor. We were both  flabbergasted.” 
Store bosses launched an investigation to trace the benefactor after the cash was discovered.
 

They studied hours of CCTV footage and interviewed staff in the hunt for clues.
But after a month the identity of the giver – whose misspelled note read: “Please give the poor children. It is for there fund” – remained unknown.
The store management then notified police, who held the cash for three months to see if anyone claimed it as lost.
 Now the windfall – which was dropped off at the store in September – is going to  children’s charities as the note specified. 
After realising there was something unusual about the parcel, John and Linda alerted store manager Ian McMullen, 47, who counted the cash, which totalled &pound;7440.
Ian said: “I was a bit shocked when they gave it to me.
“We wanted to establish why someone would leave that money in Asda, rather than give it straight to charity, and to give them the opportunity to get it back if they’d made a mistake.
 

“Any lost money goes to the police but they gave us it back in January. But the intention was clear from the note that they wanted us to help children.
“This person might have been thinking of our Cash For Kids campaign and thought to give the money to us.”
With 120,000 people shopping at the store during the fortnight the package was left, staff knew finding the person who donated it would be almost impossible.
Ian added: “I wish we could have identified the person to thank them for their amazing generosity in helping children.”
The cash is being shared between three charities – Broomhouse Carers, Broomhouse Big Project and Gate 55. It will fund activities for disadvantaged kids including go-karting, swimming lessons, athletics camps and summer holiday trips.
 
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

