 FOOTBALL clubs should face severe direct punishment for sectarian fans, the Scottish Government has been told. 
The crackdown – under which clubs would bear strict liability for supporters’ behaviour – could include closing grounds for several months.
Dr Duncan Morrow, who chaired an advisory group reporting to Holyrood, said football clubs in Scotland continue to be “in denial” about bigotry.
Football clubs have said that strict liability would not work.
But Morrow’s group’s report concludes: “We feel very strongly that sanctions are urgently needed.”
It also states: “Their introduction would not simply be a step towards tackling sectarianism, but also an important step towards clubs and their fans taking responsibility for their actions, as we all have to do elsewhere in society.
“We were told one reason strict liability was unworkable in Scotland was because certain stadia would be closed for months leading to severe hardship for particular clubs.
“However, that claim also makes the case for action. If elements within Scottish football make it so toxic that it cannot survive the introduction of strict liability, then we need to find ways to address these elements.

“No serious and long-term attempt to address and tackle sectarianism in Scotland will succeed without the sustained co-operation and engagement of the football authorities, the clubs and football supporters.”
The recommendations of the group, who focused on sectarianism throughout Scotland, have now been passed to the Scottish Government.
 Morrow added: “Our work explored how sectarianism continues to manifest itself in Scotland and still has the power to impact negatively on people’s lives. 
“But we have also seen a strong hunger for change across Scotland and a real desire to make sectarianism a thing of the past.
 “It is important that we move from just talking about this and endlessly considering it as an element of Scotland that is hidden away, to something that can be dealt with in a robust and real manner. 
“What we can’t have is an ongoing debate where some people say this is a problem whereas football clubs continue to be in denial.”
Community Minister Paul Wheelhouse said: “This publication marks a significant step forward in helping us to tackle the issue of sectarianism in Scotland once and for all. This Scottish Government will continue to do all it can to create a Scotland free from the scourge of sectarianism.”
Anti-sectarian group Nil by Mouth’s campaign director Dave Scott said: “This report is the most significant piece of research ever compiled on this complex problem.
“We are pleased the group recognised the importance of strict liability in the Scottish game. This is the UEFA standard and has been used effectively against Scottish teams when they’ve played in Europe and elements of their fanbase have indulged in sectarian behaviour.”


