A CRAZED killer who stabbed a prostitute 44 times and raped two other women beside her dead body has been jailed for life.
Car salesman Steven Mathieson, 38 – described by his lawyer as an “ordinary, everyday, probably slightly boring man – was told he will serve at least 22 years before being considered for parole.
Mathieson’s four-year-old son was asleep in the room next door when he slaughtered single mum Luciana Maurer in a cocaine-fuelled frenzy.
He then called two more vice girls to his home in Springfield Drive, Falkirk, and repeatedly raped them during a sustained attack in December last year.
The women, from eastern Europe, eventually managed to flee the house naked and ran to a neighbour for help as Mathieson chased them with knives.
Luciana had only been in Scotland for two weeks after travelling from London.
 

Her family in Transylvania believed she was working in Germany as a waitress and didn’t know she was in the UK until police told them of her death.
Mathieson sobbed in the dock as sentence was passed at the High Court in Livingston yesterday. Judge Lord Bannatyne described his crimes as “truly dreadful”, adding: “This is an appalling case. By your actings a young woman has lost her life.
“You contacted this young woman and had her come to your home. Within a short time of her arrival you subjected her to a sustained and brutal attack.
“You stabbed this defenceless young woman on approximately 44 occasions. As you subjected her to this attack, she must have been terrified.”
The judge said Mathieson had deprived Luciana’s parents of their daughter and a young girl of her mother. He told him: “The lives of these people have been devastated by what you did.”
Lord Bannatyne added: “You also invited two other young women to your house. When they arrived, you subjected them to a sustained, degrading and terrifying attack involving their being repeatedly raped.
 

“Throughout this attack they must have feared for their lives. A particularly appalling part of the attack on these women was that the initial part of it took place in the bedroom where the body of the deceased was lying. Your actions can only be described as wholly depraved.
“When an opportunity to escape arose and they sought to take it, you sought to prevent them escaping. Only by good fortune were they able to escape and run naked to obtain assistance.”
The judge said the the only explanation offered for Mathieson’s crimes was that he had taken a lot of cocaine.
Donald Findlay QC, defending, said his client was an “ordinary, everyday, probably slightly boring man”.
He told the court Mathieson had turned to cocaine and he believed “the evil that lies behind this is concerned with his use and abuse of cocaine”.
 Mathieson, who has shown no remorse, chillingly told his victims he knew he faced years in prison for murder then calmly snorted cocaine and accused them of “not doing their jobs properly”. 
 

The horror unfolded while Mathieson’s partner Suzanne Thogersen was on a works night out and their other son was at his grandparents’.
 Detective Inspector David Pinkney, who led the murder inquiry, said: “Steven Mathieson had not been known to police prior to this night. It is certainly very unusual for a crime like this to happen without previous offences.
“This has been an extremely traumatic ordeal for the women involved and their families and the wider community.
“I’d like to commend the bravery of the two young women and Luciana’s family throughout the investigation.”
 Pinkney added: “It’s a very quiet community where this kind of crime is highly unusual and rare. The community has slowly come back to normal. 
“Police Scotland welcome this sentence and although nothing can undo Mathieson’s actions that night, I hope that this will give his victims andall those affected by his crimes some sense of closure.”
Try our quick news quiz below:

