POLICE were last night probing Rangers defender Bilel Mohsni’s violent Fir Park meltdown.
The raging Tunisian was captured in shocking pictures and television footage clearly landing a punch on Motherwell’s Lee Erwin.
He also kicked the young striker in shameful scenes after Rangers crashed to play-off defeat.
Legal sources said last night Mohsni would almost certainly be reported to prosecutors for his part in the mayhem that followed the final whistle at Fir Park.
In a powder keg atmosphere, Rangers had just been condemned to another season in the Championship by Motherwell’s 3-0 win.
Watch the moment Bilel Mohsni loses the plot with Lee Erwin:
 
Moshni kicks and punches a Motherwell player at the end of the game. Extraordinary stuff. https://t.co/DqT3HzSblc

It sealed a 6-1 aggregate victory over the two legs of the play-off by the Steelmen, who were jubilant at dodging relegation from the Premiership.
But then Mohsni ensured the match’s lasting notoriety by reacting furiously after taking a shove in the back from Erwin.
Erwin, 21, claimed he lashed out because the Rangers player refused to shake hands at the end of the match.
As hundreds of Motherwell fans invaded the pitch, Mohsni was shoved by Well substitute Fraser Kerr, leading to more punches being thrown by the Tunisian, who was thought to be playing his last match for Rangers.
  Keith Jackson: Bilel Mohsni is a joke and he just sums up the state of Rangers.. providing endless embarrassment 

As 27-year-old Mohsni took Kerr in a headlock, Motherwell players, backroom staff and stewards waded into the melee while the home fans marauded around the pitch.
Mounted police were sent in to restore order and contain the fans.
Meanwhile, Rangers manager Stuart McCall – who formerly bossed Motherwell – had a confrontation in the tunnel with Fir Park striker Scott McDonald.
Earlier in the game, a flare had been thrown on the pitch and Rangers’ Lee McCulloch was hit in the face by a Motherwell fan’s flag – which the supporter insisted was an accident.
Last night, police were studying the TV footage as well as CCTV pictures from the ground as an investigation swung into action.
They said there had been three arrests unrelated to the on-pitch incident.
Assistant chief constable Bernie Higgins added: “Police Scotland will conduct a full review of the circumstances and liaise with the appropriate partners, and decide how best to take the matter forward over the coming days.”
Lawyer Campbell Deane, of Glasgow firm Bannatyne Kirkwood &amp; France, said the Mohsni fracas appeared to be a “clear case of assault”.
He said: “An assault is an assault. The events at Fir Park seem pretty clear-cut and have been seen by thousands on television.
 

“If a complaint is made, which is highly likely, the police will have to take action.
“There is a precedent that events on the football field aren’t always deemed to be criminal matters.
“If a player is hit in the face by a flying elbow while running for the ball, that isn’t normally deemed to be assault. That doesn’t apply here, obviously.
“The game is finished, it’s got nothing to do with the game itself.”
Match referee Craig Thomson issued red cards to Mohsni, Erwin and Kerr after the final whistle and all three players are likely to face SFA bans.
But the real punishment could come through the courts.
After the match, Erwin branded Mohsni an “embarrassment”.
He said: “I tried to shake Mohsni’s hand to wish him all the best but he told me to f*** off and reacted badly. It’s embarrassing for him and the club.” Erwin later tweeted: “I thought the boxing was on last night #embarrassing.”
Within 45 minutes of the final whistle, a still raging Mohsni boarded the Rangers team bus with his Ibrox team-mates.
But he got off again seconds later in an apparent bid to get back in the ground.
He headed over to an exit used by Motherwell players and had to be manhandled to the coach by security staff as home fans booed and jeered.

He was given a dressing down by officials before being put back on the bus, which left the stadium a short time later.
Following the final whistle, a massive police operation swung into action to escort the Rangers fans away from Fir Park.
Officers on horseback, others on mountain bikes and scores on foot walked Gers supporters to nearby Airbles Station.
Supporters on both sides were left in disbelief by the Rangers player’s behaviour.
Yesterday’s disgraceful scenes were among the worst seen at a Scottish professional sports event since the 1987 “Battle of Ibrox” which featured a brawl between Celtic player Frank McAvennie and Rangers stars Chris Woods, Terry Butcher and Graham Roberts.
McAvennie and Woods were sent off in the initial incident, while Butcher was sent off later in the game.

All four were later reported to the procurator fiscal and appeared in court on disorder charges relating to their conduct in that game.
 
McAvennie was found not guilty and Roberts not proven, while Butcher and Woods were both convicted of breach of the peace.
Mohsni was signed by former Gers boss Ally McCoist in July 2013 after a successful trial stint. The hot-headed defender was mocked during the Africa Cup of Nations finals this year after he was left out of the starting 11 and was caught phoning his mum to complain.
Rangers fans took to Twitter to condemn Moshni’s behaviour.
Twitter user Rangers Fans Views wrote: “Please do not renew Moshni’s contract” while JimmyMac wrote: “Embarrassed that Moshni has been a part of Rangers Football club. Out!”
Fan BrianRangers wrote: “Moshni showing everything that’s wrong at Rangers. A embarrassing man and footballer. You will neither be missed or remembered.”
Try our quick sport quiz below:

