A WIDOW whose husband was killed by an off-duty policeman in a hit-and-run accident has been awarded a &pound;300,000 payout.
Lisa Douglas was paid the sum after a four-year battle for compensation following the death of her truck driver husband Martin.
PC Hamaad Khalid, 27, drove off after knocking down Martin Douglas, 41, in Edinburgh on New Year’s Day in 2011.
An investigation into the accident revealed that first-aider Khalid could have helped Martin had he stopped his car.
But he drove off and only returned to the scene seven minutes later.
 

In January last year, we revealed Lisa had launched a &pound;1.1million damages action against Khalid at the Court of Session. She demanded &pound;500,000 and then &pound;200,000 each for her three children, Martina, 20, Thomas, 18, and Ben, 10.
Now the full-time mum – who has the lung condition emphysema – has accepted &pound;300,000 from Khalid’s insurers in an out-of-court settlement.
She plans to use the money to buy a home and to secure their financial future.
Lisa has claimed the fight for compensation affected her health. She was diagnosed with emphysema in 2007 and has been warned she could be housebound within years.
She and her lawyers declined to comment last week. But last year, she told the Sunday Mail: “This is not about money but getting justice for Martin.”
Khalid was never prosecuted over Martin’s death.
 

A court source added: “This is a very significant payout and is a testament to the perseverance of Lisa and her legal team.”
Lisa, of Niddrie, Edinburgh, had also accused the former Lothian and Borders Police – now replaced by Police Scotland – of a cover-up over Martin’s death.
Last April, a probe by the former Central Scotland force upheld seven out of eight complaints Lisa made against the force.
Investigators failed to breath-test Khalid – standard procedure after all road accidents – and seize his mobile phone to test if he was using it when he hit Martin.
 

Lothian and Borders Police were also criticised for failing to drug-test Khalid which, while not compulsory, is recommended in road accidents.
The force were slammed for letting Lisa stand for 45 minutes on her own at the accident while her husband was taken to hospital.
Khalid had finished a shift at Drylaw police station in Edinburgh before the accident shortly after 4am.
Lisa was celebrating New Year with Martin and friends on the night he died near the city’s Playhouse Theatre.
The couple were about to go home when Martin nipped across the road for a takeaway. Khalid’s black Toyota hit him as he headed back across the road.
He resigned from the force in 2013.

