POLICE have been slammed for keeping thousands of pictures of innocent Scots on a controversial facial recognition database.
Officers admitted using the special technology hundreds of times in a bid to identity faces captured on CCTV and other images.
Police Scotland also revealed that it has uploaded hundreds of thousands of mugshots onto a UK-wide police database used as the main resource for facial recognition searches.
Scots Lib Dem justice spokeswoman Alison McInnes, said: “Without adequate safeguards, there is nothing to stop the police using from using this technology for mass surveillance.”
The National Police Database, which contains 18 million mugshots, has already proved controversial.
Independent watchdog Alastair MacGregor, the UK’s Biometrics Commissioner, has warned it may include hundreds of thousands of images of innocent people, raising questions about privacy.
Police Scotland confirmed it was uploading its own custody pictures but declined to say how many. At the time, it did not say it was using facial recognition technology to trawl the database.
But in response to Ms McInnes, it confirmed it has uploaded 601,837 custody mugshots onto the database, featuring 334,594 individuals.
Police Scotland also revealed it had used facial recognition technology in an attempt to match CCTV images with those on the database on 440 occasions.
Ms McInnes said the figures were “staggering” and showed Police Scotland was using “intrusive software” extensively.
She added: “The photos of over 300,000 Scots are among 18 million included in the national database.
“The combination of this database with the new facial recognition software has triggered concerns about the protection of our civil liberties.
“It could be used to identify protestors at political events or football fans, stifling freedom of speech.
“I also have real concerns that the privacy of innocent people could be compromised and they could be exposed to the risk of false identification.”
Detective Chief Inspector Russell Penman, of Police Scotland’s Specialist Crime Division, said: “Police Scotland has been using facial searching functionality on the Police National Database since 2014.
“Facial search is an intelligence tool that can be used for intelligence development purposes.
“It is not used for formal photographic identification procedures, although it does provide intelligence around the suspected identity of an individual whose image has been taken and searched.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

