A PHOTOGRAPH of a Scots woman with learning disabilities is being used on a scam website to sell diet pills.
Kirsty Kennedy, 30, featured in a Channel 5 documentary earlier this year about being overweight and jobless.
In Benefits Britain: Life on the Dole, she described how she felt people judged her on her size.
Kirsty, from St Ninians, weighs 22 stones but is determined to shed pounds and find work, having volunteered for local charity Food Train for more than a year.
 

But a website - offering the Ultra Ketone System and Cleanse Xtreme - claims that Kirsty is really Sarah Wright, aged 31, from Essex who lost 98lbs with this miracle “skinny pill”.
The website uses Kirsty’s photograph as a “before” picture, presenting images of a completely different, size 6 woman as the “after” picture.
Kirsty, who has now passed her driving test and is applying for jobs, said: “That’s ridiculous. The other woman doesn’t even look like me.
“I’m not a size 6 and I haven’t lost 98lbs - I wish I had.”
The other woman on the website is Taryn Wright, from Essex, who featured in a story on a national newspaper’s website about losing weight after splitting up from her husband.
The scam site, which claims to belong to Women’s Health magazine, states: “Sarah Wright, a 31 year old divorcee from Essex, claims that being married made her fat and since getting divorced she has lost an incredible 98lbs just as a result of using a new diet known as Ultra Ketone System and Cleanse Xtreme.”
The site claims Sarah went from a size 10 to a size 20 during her marriage, but used the slimming pills during her divorce to slim to a size 6.
It adds: “Our top research team found this diet is completely natural, organic and completely healthy!”
The website uses a cover shot of Women’s Health magazine and an endorsement from a fictitious health and diet writer, before encouraging readers to sign up for a free trial of the slimming tablets at a cost of just &pound;2.95 + &pound;3.95 postage and packing.
But comments on the real Women’s Health website show many women have taken up this offer - and found larger amounts were taken from their bank or credit cards.
Women’s Health Magazine has a statement on it’s real site, saying: “You may have seen websites purporting to be Women’s Health UK selling dietary and weight loss supplements.
“Please be aware that these websites are not connected with Women’s Health in any way and we do not promote or endorse any dietary supplements of this nature.”
A spokesman for Hearst Magazines UK said: “We are appalled that the good name of Women’s Health has been associated with this fraudulent activity.
“Women’s Health is not in any way connected to this fake company or the products it claims to sell.
“We have instructed private investigators TM Eye who are working with the Met’s fraud team and their new IP Crime Unit to identify and prosecute those responsible for this scam.”
If you come across a scam website, you can report it to Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040 or at www.actionfraud.police.uk/report_fraud. All reports of fraudulent websites are sent to the City of London Police’s National Fraud Intelligence Bureau who have a dedicated website disruptions team.
Try your hand at our news quiz

