A FATHER duped into thinking his baby had been aborted told a jury he had &quot;mourned&quot; for the child and had been deprived of spending the first three years of her life with her.
He said he had been excited when he discovered his partner was pregnant and was left bereft when she claimed she had terminated the pregnancy.
He told a jury that it was not until a long time after the birth that he realised his daughter had not been aborted but had in fact been born and taken by another man.
Perth Sheriff Court was told that the child's mother and her homosexual friend had signed the birth certificate and claimed to be the child's natural parents. The court was told that DNA tests proved the witness was the child's real father.
&quot;I was gutted to start off with. I questioned her a couple of weeks after and she informed she did terminate the child. I was sad and mourned for a while because I thought the child was dead.
&quot;My head was a bit messed up,&quot; he said. &quot;I have missed everything for the first three years. I've missed the most important time in any child's life for bonding and will never be able to get that again.
&quot;It makes me angry to know what they have done.&quot;
He told the trial he had been &quot;over the moon&quot; when he discovered the woman - whom he had a three month relationship with - had fallen pregnant with his child.
&quot;I love having children. She got more and more reluctant about having the child near the end of our relationship. She split up with me and told me she was going to have an abortion.&quot;
The child's mother and her homosexual male friend are on trial for fraud, accused of duping the biological father into thinking the child had been aborted.
They have accepted, through a joint minute, that they put their own names on the birth certificate and that the biological father was not aware she had been born.
The court was told that the gay man wanted a child of his own and claimed the baby girl had been given to him by a lesbian lawyer called Clare Green, acting as a surrogate. The court was told her character had been dreamed up by the two accused.
The biological father said the male accused, who is 35 and from Glasgow, was known as a homosexual who had a series of casual sexual relationships with men he met through Grindr.
Members of the jury heard how the man told the biological father that he had used &quot;a turkey baster&quot; to inseminate 'Clare Green.'
The father said he was suspicious about the gay man's story of how he had come to have a child and eventually began a civil court case which led to the child being DNA tested - and proven to be his own &quot;terminated&quot; daughter.
He told the jury that he had married since the birth and had also formally obtained custody of the child at the centre of the case.
His former lover denied during a police interview that she had set the hoax up to make between 100 to 300 pounds and said: &quot;I never received any money.&quot;
The 29-year-old woman, from Perth, and her gay friend are alleged to have formed a fraudulent scheme to deny the child's father his parental rights for almost three years.
They are alleged to have made up a series of claims - starting before the baby was born in February 2011 - to dupe the father into thinking the child had never been born.
It is alleged that between 1 June 2010 and 18 April 2013 they carried out the fraud at Perth High Street, Perth Royal Infirmary, Perth police office and Perth Registry Office.
 More news from Perth 
It is alleged that the mother pretended to the real father that she had terminated the pregnancy and pretended to another named woman that she was not pregnant.
They are then alleged to have set up a fake Facebook profile for a fictional woman, who then claimed she was acting as a surrogate mother for the male accused.
The fake Facebook persona then pretended she had handed the female child to the man and he had full custody of the child.
He is alleged to have pretended to Perth Registrar Alison Breingan that he was the girl's father. The mother is alleged to have pretended to the true father and another man that she had not given birth.
She is alleged to have told the council she terminated the original pregnancy with the child's father and that her co-accused was the father of the child she now had.
The couple deny the charges and the trial, before Sheriff William Wood, continues.

