 THE finances of sex shame preacher Walter Masocha’s church must be probed to account for millions of pounds raised from worshippers, politicians said yesterday. 
Official statements show the Agape for All Nations church – founded by Masocha and run as a charity – raised almost &pound;4million in the past four years.
Last year, they took in &pound;850,959 and paid out almost all of that towards undefined “charitable activities”.
Church members who asked where the money went have drawn a blank.
Church chairman Duncan Dougall said some parishioners had become “jealous” of Masocha’s progress and raised concerns about finances.
But one member said: “We all had to tithe. If you didn’t, well you weren’t actually part of the group. Others also gave gifts and offerings over and above tithes.
“A lot of us had concerns about how the money was being accounted for, especially when Dr Masocha suddenly announced he was leaving his post at the university.
“I remember thinking and discussing with others about how much of a financial burden that would put on us all. Then there was the problem of how wealthy he seemed to become.
“First of all it was the suits, it was clear they had been tailor made. Then he was chauffeur driven to other satellites.”
Records show Agape spent more than &pound;250,000 on staff and a further &pound;34,450 on “governance”.
 Masocha and wife Judith are said to have been paid about &pound;30,000 a year each. They live in a seven-bedroom mansion on the outskirts of Stirling, where the church have their HQ. 
 Labour’s justice spokesman urged the Office of the Scottish Charities Regulator (OSCR) to investigate. 
MSP Hugh Henry said: “These are serious allegations which must be investigated. The OSCR should consider the concerns that churchgoers have expressed about the spending of their charitable donations.
“The special status afforded to charities must be rigorously defended against abuse.”
 

The abuse took place at Masocha’s mint-green mansion in Sauchieburn. The converted water treatment building is surrounded by a tall fence and CCTV cameras.
The home, where he often invited members to stay, was bought as a repossession for almost &pound;400,000 in 2009. He made more alterations and added a &pound;25,000 extension.
Yesterday, a green Range Rover and an Audi were parked on the long driveway.
A woman at the house, believed to be Judith Masocha, claimed he wasn’t at home.
The couple, who have four children, also own a three-bedroom home in nearby Bridge of Allan. Bought in 2001 for &pound;82,000, it is now rented out. They also own a flat in Townhead, Glasgow, bought in 2004 for &pound;11,800.
Masocha stepped down from his leadership of the church after his conviction last month but Judith – described as Prophetess on the church website – is still in her position.
Dougall gave the Sunday Mail a copy of the church’s financial statements for the year ending March 2013. They showed &pound;287,576 was spent on staff and say no individual member of staff was paid more than &pound;60,000.
A total of &pound;42,219 was spent on overseas travel. Property and resources, including heating and lighting, cost &pound;140,183.
Trustee Dr Ian McHardy – a GP at Wellwynd Practice in Airdrie Health Centre – insisted the charity’s finances were above board.
McHardy said: “The accounts are audited independently every year and submitted to the Charities Regulator every year. No concerns were ever raised by either.
“Walter Masocha was paid a wage as every charity will do for the key employees. That is reported in the accounts. There were concerns from members and that’s why we have an AGM where the accounts are printed off.”
A spokesman for the OSCR would not comment on whether specific charities were under investigation.
St Andrews University anthropology expert Dr Mattia Fumanti said scandals can be common in this type of church. He said many Pentecostal churches, like Agape, believe it is not a good thing to become wealthy.
He said: “Charismatic preachers in Pentecostal churches all over the world are extremely wealthy. There is a paradox because the pastor preaches that you shouldn’t show off too much about wealth.”
 

THE chairman of the Agape church trustees defended sex abuse preacher Walter Masocha and turned on his accusers.
Duncan Dougall, 68, insisted Masocha’s conviction was the result of “disabused” church members plotting to bring him down.
The retired physiotherapist is the point of contact and his Falkirk address is Agape’s registered base with charity watchdogs.
He said: “My association with Dr Masocha goes back 12 years. He is the most loving, generous, open-hearted man.
“A number of people became disabused with the church a few years ago, relating to the finance. They looked at his progress and became jealous.
“There’s been almost a conspiracy among people who seem to be out to undermine his ministry and the church.
“The ambience within the congregations is such that folk will hug one another and embrace.
“It was in that context that these allegations were made.
“She says he touched her inappropriately and I disbelieve that.
“He is about to lose his job. He’s been criminalised if what’s been said is true, and I don’t believe it is, for kissing a child on the lips and for touching a woman with her clothes on. What justice is there in that?
“He’s no Jimmy Savile.”
Volunteer Dougall defended Masocha over claims he was taking too much money and pressurising members to make donations. He said members were encouraged to give a tithe – 10 per cent of their income – to the church.
He said: “Dr Masocha does not get that money, it comes into the funds that are dealt with by the administration of the church.”
He said there was nothing underhand and the accounts were audited.
He added: “Dr Masocha was working 60 hours a week, seven days a week. The man was called upon relentlessly by people in his congregations all over the country.”
 

 THE killer mum of tragic five-year-old Scott Chiriseri was a member of Agape before falling out with Masocha. 
 Farai Chiriseri stabbed her son to death and cut out his heart in a sickening attack at their home in Alva, Clackmannashire. 
The 32-year-old was charged with murder but was acquitted last month after a judge heard she was suffering from a mental illness at the time of the killing.
When she killed Scott, she thought she was on a “mission from God”.
 One ex-church member claimed that Chiriseri was “demonised” by the preacher when she left his church. Friends have said that she was left on her own when Masocha encouraged Scott’s dad Tichakunda, who was also a church member, to go off with another woman. 
The woman said: “Everyone who left the church was said by him (Masocha) to be mentally unstable, a witch, possessed.
“She (Chiriseri) left the church and, as with many couples where only one person went to the church, he would say to her husband, ‘You need to cut this person off’.
“He said she had the devil inside her.
“He gave Tichakunda to another woman member.”
  Sex shame preacher Walter Masocha abused women who worshipped the ground he walked on in cult-like Scots church 
 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

