EXAMS bosses yesterday said no pupils will be disadvantaged after thousands of candidates complained about an &quot;impossible&quot; Higher maths paper.
The Scottish Qualifications Authority (SQA) said the marking would take into consideration whether the exam was harder than intended.
 The Record told yesterday how hundreds of pupils started an online petition complaining about the exam being too difficult . 
Some pupils were said to have been reduced to tears by questions in the exam, which took place on Wednesday.
More than 13,000 people have signed two online petitions urging the Scottish Qualifications Authority (SQA) to take into account the difficulty of the exam when marking papers.
One petition, titled &quot;Explain why they set the Higher maths exam to an impossible level&quot;, said: &quot;The general consensus is that the majority of questions were so hard the students weren't able to solve them.
&quot;The SQA should be investigated as this is an outrage. Pupils have put so much preparation into this subject and have now been left traumatised.
&quot;The knock-on effect is fear of subsequent exams and the possibility of not gaining access to the university course they have worked so hard for.&quot;
It called on the SQA to reduce the pass mark for the exam or take into account marks attained throughout the year.
The other petition, titled &quot;Reconsider new CfE higher maths exam grades&quot;, said the exam &quot;reduced individuals to tears and extreme stress&quot;.
For the first time this year children had the option of sitting the new Higher but many schools opted to continue teaching the original Higher syllabus.
But pupils sitting both exams were shocked by the levels of difficulty when they saw the paper on Wednesday.
The Daily Record continued to receive a steady stream of emails and calls from worried pupils yesterday about their concerns.
 

One pupil wrote: &quot;I personally sat the New higher math exam and it was dreadful. From extremely wordy questions containing an array of jungle animals from toads, frogs, crocodiles and zebras to un-clearly asked questions or over-complicated questions this ex&quot;am was almost as if it was intended to be impossible.
&quot;One of our math teachers even said it was unnecessarily complicated. It's very sad that this exam was the reason why so many students will not be able to attend university as it will result in them not being able to meet their conditionals.&quot;
Another added: &quot;Having sat the Higher Maths paper this year it can only be said that this years hard work was a waste and that nothing could have prepared me for it.
I feel truly sorry for those whose last chance it would have been to sit the paper and were required to achieve certain grades in order to study their chosen course at university.&quot;
But the SQA has moved to reassure pupils.
A spokesman said: &quot;We recognise that the exams period is a stressful time for young people and their parents. We are aware of the concerns many of them have raised on online petitions about the Higher maths exams and we want to reassure them.
&quot;As is the case every year, we do not set the pass mark or the number of marks required for each grade until the marking process is complete, later in the summer. This procedure ensures that we have the necessary statistical information on how the exam performed and whether it was harder than intended. Only then will we set the marks required for each grade.
&quot;We would therefore expect someone who got an A, B or C grade last year to receive the same result this year.
&quot;These rigorous processes are in place to ensure that no-one will be disadvantaged.&quot;

Want an easier test - try today's quick quiz:

