AS a young boy, he was taken into a deprived Scots housing scheme by his singer dad who was determined to use his talents to help keep local  teenagers out of trouble.
Now Frankie Vaughan’s son is hoping to carry on what his father started in the 60s by helping gang members give up a life of violence.
 As a seven-year-old, David Sye accompanied his singer dad to   Easterhouse, Glasgow, in 1968. 
Frankie was inspired to intervene after seeing the deprivation and blade culture in the scheme.
David, 54, said: “I remember going up with him to Scotland and he loved the Scots. He just felt very close.
“Our family are  immigrants from Russia and we tell it like it is, as do people from Glasgow and it feels like home.
“I remember one time he came to do a show in Glasgow and he had really bad flu.
“The doctor told him not to go on or he would wash his hands of him but my dad said, ‘I can’t let the people of Glasgow down.’
“He went on stage and told the audience he had the flu but couldn’t let them down and the audience just got up and sang to him. I watched that and thought, ‘That’s amazing’.
“My dad had a love affair and I’ve had a love affair with Glasgow since.”
Frankie was at the height of his fame as a crooner when he arrived in Glasgow in July 1968 to meet gang leaders and promise them he would fund a new youth centre if they changed their ways.
Politicians and police chiefs doubted his trip would do any good. Some questioned his sincerity, others considered it a mere publicity stunt.
But Frankie had been involved in gangs growing up in Liverpool and, having turned his life around with his music career, he wanted to help others.
 

Members of local gangs such as the Toi, Paks, Drummy and Rebels turned up to meet the well-dressed star.
A knife amnesty was agreed. Gang leaders surrendered meat cleavers, hatchets, chibs, spiked railings and bayonets into bins that had been laid out on waste ground in front of St Benedict’s school. Frankie staged concerts to raise funds for the centre, built by local kids with Army help.
For a while, it helped alleviate some of the frustration of young people desperate for a creative outlet.
“My dad was very proud of it,” David said. “I was dragged along as a lad and he very much involved me in it.
“He said the people in charge, the politicians and the councillors, were doing nothing.
“Everyone was complaining that the violence was getting worse. So he said he was going to raise the money to build a centre and went to see the lads, though everyone told him not to do it because it was dangerous.
“They wanted to do him but when they heard him speak, they fell in love with him because they realised he was a bad boy just like them. He’d run around in Liverpool as a boy.
“He put his money where his mouth was, did several shows and raised the cash to build the centre.”
But by the time Frankie died in 1999 after a long illness, the centre had fallen into disrepair.
 Despite his sponsorship and  donations from celebrity pals and private firms, public money dried up due to violence at the centre and vandalism. Now David is hoping to help kids in Easterhouse and  elsewhere, just like his dad did. 
He said: “I think my dad would have been sad to know how it fell to pieces and about the empty promises made.
“We live in an age when they would rather build another supermarket than deal with social deprivation.
“That’s why I’m getting involved in a project in Easterhouse.
“There are guys who will become very dangerous adults unless you  deal with them because of the psychological war that can tear a guy to pieces in places like Easterhouse.
“A chap called Mark Brown has an organisation in Glasgow that puts together experts in their field to go into places like Easterhouse and Govan to deal with social violence.
“We want to resolve the Easterhouse project in my lifetime, just like my dad started it in his lifetime.”
When David heads back to Scotland, however, it’s likely it won’t be to follow in his dad’s footsteps in the schemes but as a musician.
 His band No Mad Karma have just released a single, called 27, inspired by his cousin Amy Winehouse ’s death in 2011. The song features backing vocalist Jaelee Small, who is the daughter of My Boy Lollipop singer, Millie Small. 
Session bassist Phil Spalding, who has played with Mick Jagger, Ray Charles, Elton John and Robbie Williams, is in the group with drummer Preston Heyman, who has worked with Kate Bush and Paul McCartney.
David said: “I wrote the song the day it was announced Amy died. My father’s sister Carol married Neville Winehouse.
“Amy only lived two blocks away from me in Camden. I never met her even though we’d pass in the street.
“I’m a well-known yoga teacher and my cousin Johnny Winehouse asked me to help by doing therapy with Amy. It never got set up.
“I was frustrated when the next thing I knew was when my mum called me to tell me she had died. On that day I went into the studio and wrote the song.
“When I was writing it, I  realised lots of people had died aged 27. It’s a strange, enigmatic club with people like Kurt Cobain, Janis Joplin and Jimi Hendrix so I included them in the mix.
“It is starting to kick off in the clubs – a celebration to her life and those other greats who didn’t get past 27.”
David said growing up with his father made him realise how performers lead a lonely existence.
He said: “People love you then you go home at the end of the show.
“My father always insisted we have a normal life but people like Hendrix and Cobain find that hard. That’s why they lose it.
“The superstardom my father had was something that was normal for me to be around.
“People were desperate to be with him and he’d just grab hold of me or my mum and sister and we’d escape.
“That’s what I mean about a normal existence. It’s the thing Amy found it very difficult to have.
“People like Amy and Kurt don’t fit into the box and it is only when they are gone that we appreciate them fully.”

