AS a police officer and firefighter , they spend their days keeping people safe.
Now Douglas Bulmer and Scott MacDonald plan to save more lives by raising cash for a charity providing defibrillators in remote parts of the Highlands.
The friends are fans of challenging endurance events, so they have devised their own duathlon, which will raise funds for Lucky2BHere.
The Highlander – Escape the Redcoats combines running and cycling. It will take place on July 18 in the Cairngorm National Park.
Competitors will follow a figure-of-eight course on a 39-mile road cycle – suitable for any bike – and a nine-mile run through the hills but on the flat through Glen Banchor, following the River Calder.
Those taking part can follow in the footsteps of the Highlanders as they escaped the Redcoats through the countryside in the 18th century.
The event starts and finishes at the Highland Folk Museum in Newtonmore – the Inverness-shire village where Douglas and Scott grew up – so people can get a chance to see Highland life as it was in times gone by.
There will also be a re-enactment society in authentic dress giving demonstrations of pitched battles.
Duathlon competitors will be welcomed at the finish line by a piper and traditionally dressed clansman.
Policeman Douglas, 41, who is married to Ashley and now lives in Glasgow, said: “Uniting our love of running and cycling with the beautiful scenery around our home town seemed like the perfect recipe for a memorable event.
“We truly believe this event offers a unique experience where entrants can follow in the footsteps of the Highlanders as they escaped the Redcoats through the glens.
“We have worked hard to keep the event as flat as possible, while maximising the stunning scenery of the area.
“We wanted to make it accessible. And we’ve also secured permission for the route to go through two Highland estates.”
Those taking part will switch from bike to foot in the grounds of Cluny Castle – the historic home of the Macpherson clan chiefs.
The original building was burnt down by Government soldiers fighting the Jacobite forces in 1746. It was rebuilt in 1805 and was considered as a home by Queen Victoria.
 

Douglas said: “Scott and I have still got close ties with home and it’s a beautiful place. We also wanted to support a local charity.”
Fireman Scott, 40, who is married to Gemma, 34, and now lives in Edinburgh, said: “We are delighted to support Lucky2BHere, who aim to provide defibrillators in rural areas and train local people to use them.
“Raising money for this great cause while promoting the local area is something we have wanted to do for a long time so we are really excited to announce the date for this event.”
Douglas explained that defibrillators can save lives by giving someone with heart problems immediate help.
He said: “Minutes count on these occasions. These can save a life if you get there in time.
 
“The more defibrillators we can get in rural areas like this, the better as the nearest hospital is Inverness, which can be a long way away.
“This is close to our hearts – literally.”
Both Douglas and Scott have competed in various endurance events so used their experience to compile the course. They wanted to make it challenging but also accessible for those new to duathlons.
Scott has previously cycled from Land’s End to John O’Groats and competed in endurance races. Douglas was the first person to swim the River Spey – Scotland’s second longest river.
He also swam from Alcatraz Island in San Francisco Bay and completed half ironman and other endurance events.
He said: “We’re both quite experienced in these events so we thought, let’s give a bit back and get people into the area where we grew up and get them enjoying themselves.”
And the duo decided to make the event just as interesting for spectators.
Douglas said: “We’ve done a lot of these events and they’re usually boring for spectators.
“We wanted to make it family-friendly.”
So the pair decided to organise for spectators to visit the folk museum or watch battle re-enactments.
Scott added: “Douglas and I have known each other since we were kids and grew up in the local area.
“We thought about this event and thought it would be a great idea to attract tourists to the area.
“On top of that, we thought every time we go to these events our wives are stuck at one end or the other with nothing to do.
 

“So we decided to make sure anyone coming to support would have something to do with a visit to the folk museum and the chance to see the re-enactment society.
“We made it a figure-of-eight course so people can see the bikes start and the finish as they run home.
“We also wanted to support a charity in the local area and decided to support Lucky 2 Be Here. It’s a great cause.
“A lot of people are scared to use defibrillators but they’re so easy to use.
“We want to raise awareness and take that uncertainty away. If you get to someone quickly it really does save lives.”

 
