A FAMILY yesterday slammed the light sentence given to a yob who floored their brother with one punch, leaving him brain damaged and needing round-the-clock care.
Kieran Moran was out with pals celebrating his early release from prison when they set upon 50-year-old Sean McTague and his two friends like “a pack of wolves”.
The serial thug had been sentenced to 18 months for a previous serious assault but despite his record, he was let out after just 11 months.
Four days later, after drinking heavily, Moran and several friends launched the unprovoked assault which destroyed Sean’s life.
At the High Court in Edinburgh yesterday, 20-year-old Moran was jailed for eight years for the attack on June 1 last year.
But Sean’s family said he should have been locked up for longer given his extremely violent past.
Brother Brien McTague said: “With his record it should have been a lot longer but in this day and age that’s the kind of sentence we have to accept.
“What they did to Sean was in some ways worse than murder because we don’t get closure.
“We’re having to live with the knock-on effects of caring for Sean and being robbed of our brother, friend and father every single day.
“But Moran? He’ll be out in a few years and be able to move on – although we don’t doubt that he’ll go on to destroy someone else’s life in the future.
“It only took him four days to do it to Sean and he’s shown absolutely no remorse for it whatsoever.”
 

Sean hit his head on the pavement after he was decked by Moran while walking home from the pub in Glenrothes, Fife.
Brien, 49, who lives in nearby Falkland, said: “I got the knock on the door at about four o’clock in the morning. The police said there had been an incident and they’d take me to the hospital.
“Halfway there, we got told he was getting transferred to Edinburgh.
 “When we were travelling down to the Western General, the police car was exceeding speeds of  100mph trying to keep up with the ambulance so I knew something serious was happening. 
“It hit me more when I saw him coming out the ambulance. He was unconscious and was taken straight to surgery for a good seven hours.”
Surgeons removed a large portion of butcher Sean’s skull to relieve the pressure on his brain.
He was kept on life support for three weeks and spent a further six weeks in hospital. Left severely brain damaged, Sean has now been moved to a specialist rehab unit in Cameron Hospital, Windygates.
His older brother Gerry, 53, said the attack has left Sean with no quality of life, suffering from severe memory loss, mobility issues and with little use of his right arm.
Gerry added: “Sometimes you see tears in his eyes because the memories are there and he recognises faces but can’t find names for them.
“He can’t move, his speech is impaired. He can try to communicate but it’s short two or three-word sentences.
“We’ve not told Sean what actually happened to him because it would only stress and upset him and he’d forget it all a day later. Everything he’s worked for is going to have to go towards paying for his care and these scum haven’t worked a day in their life.
“The biggest effect is on his son who was only 15 at the time – just getting to an age when he was going to have a more adult relationship with his dad.
“That’s been stolen from him. He’s now more of a carer than a son.”
 

The brothers added their thanks for NHS staff at various hospitals who have cared for Sean and continue to do so.
Sentencing Moran yesterday, judge Lord Glennie said: “You were convicted of taking part in a violent, unprovoked attack on three men who were simply walking back from the pub that Saturday night.
“Worst are the injuries suffered by Sean McTague, who had to spend weeks in intensive care and the high dependency unit.
“He can’t walk, is in constant pain and finds it difficult to communicate.
“His life has been completely and utterly destroyed by the attack that you were part of.
“Only one punch caused the injury to Sean McTague but that’s what happens some-times when people go on the rampage.
“At the young age of 20, you already have two convictions for assault to injury and one for serious assault to injury.
“I have no other choice but to impose a substantial custodial detention.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

