ONE of Scotland’s best-known butchers who was sacked for downloading child porn is back at the famous family firm.
But Jonathan Crombie hides from the public, spending his days at Crombies of Edinburgh’s sausage factory.
Shamed Crombie – who we revealed last year downloaded child pornography inside the firm’s shop – was &shy;reportedly sacked from the family business.
But just a year after his conviction, the 46-year-old has been spotted working at the firm’s factory in Leith.
We can also reveal that while he resigned as a director of Crombies, he is still listed as a director for The Real Sausage Shop – a subsidiary of the store in Edinburgh’s Broughton Street.
A source at the firm said: “He kept his head down for a while but he’s been appearing lately at the factory. He comes in most days and gives the orders. A lot of people think it’s shocking. Crombies told everyone he was sacked and was no longer a director but he’s still a director here and we make the sausages they sell in the shop.
“The public have a right to know that. It’s as if it’s being approved to be on the sex offenders’ register and still keep the perks that go with the family firm.
“If that was an ordinary worker at the firm, they’d have been sacked. He’s still pulling the strings.”
Another worker said: “He’s always popped in since the so-called ‘sacking’ but lately he’s been around more and more, appearing in his top-of-the-range car and issuing orders to the staff.
“It’s deplorable and I’m sure their customers won’t be happy to find out a convicted sex offender who was supposedly sacked is still around.”
 

Crombie’s dad Sandy resumed running the firm after the allegations last May and the company said his actions had “shocked” his colleagues.
Brazen Crombie, who is married, was snared after a police operation to catch users of child pornography traced an IP address to the shop premises.
When his computer was seized, 71 still images and 15 movies were found but only one image was accessible.
Another hard drive contained 69 movies, which were also inaccessible.
Crombie was alleged to have accessed the images between 2005 and 2013.
He was ordered to serve 100 hours’ community service and put on the sex offenders’ register for two years.
Last night, Crombie denied he had anything to do with the firm. He said: “I’m not working there. You’re wrong.”
When our reporter told him there was photographic evidence of him at the factory and he is still officially listed as a director, he ended the call.

