 POISED and on top of her brief, Nicola Sturgeon delivered an impressive performance at Holyrood yesterday. 
 And she cleverly put the ball firmly in David Cameron’s court when it came to the thorny issue of a second referendum. 
Sturgeon knows most Scots don’t want an immediate re-run of last year’s divisive poll.
But she’s also keenly aware that many of her army of new members are desperate to use the SNP’s new clout to have another go at taking Scotland out of the UK.
So Sturgeon’s shrewd balancing act is aimed at forcing Cameron into handing over much greater powers to Holyrood .
And by that logic, if he fails to do so, it will all be his fault when the calls for a new referendum get louder.
The Tory leader has already ruled out any chance of a fresh vote. But that just plays into the hands of people who want one.
Here, they will say, is a PM trying to stamp on Scottish opinion while having just one MP in the country.
At the same time, Cameron has the chance to call Sturgeon’s bluff – particularly on SNP calls for full fiscal autonomy.
The policy to raise all Scotland’s money here and divorce us from the Barnett formula would cost us &pound;7.6billion a year, say experts.
It’s no wonder Sturgeon seems so hesitant about putting this supposedly flagship policy at the top of devolution shopping list.
The truth is it just doesn’t make economic sense – which is why, as we reported on our front page on Saturday, voices on the Tory right want Cameron to go ahead and put it on the table. They think (with good reason, perhaps) it could blow a hole in support for independence.
Since taking over as First Minister, Sturgeon has played a blinder. But this tricky conundrum could tax even her ace political skills.
IT IS two days since the Daily Record gave Nicola Sturgeon a gentle reminder she still has a country to run.
One of the most pressing issues facing the First Minister is the Police Scotland shambles.
 Problems with the governance of the force have been a running sore since it was created two years ago by the SNP government – and these problems show no sign of improving. 
The use of stop and search on children, closure of police stations and a turf war with the police watchdog have hit the headlines.
But it is armed officers on the streets that has caused the biggest headaches.
Chief Constable Sir Stephen House said last year that armed police would only be deployed where there is a threat to life.
Yet the picture we publish today on page two shows two PCs in Stirling carrying handguns as they go to Waitrose to to buy lunch.
This is not what the Scottish public want to see. These serious failings aren’t something that can be blamed on Westminster. Police Scotland was created by the SNP government.
Sturgeon inherited the mess from Alex Salmond and has shown a willingness to get tough with House. Last month she warned he could not be “a law unto himself”.
It looks like he needs another telling.

