A SCUNNERED teenager has told how he quit his job at Subway after a string of David Brent-style texts from his bungling boss.
Gobby sandwich shop director Kenny Thomson – who bears more than a passing resemblance to Ricky Gervais’s famous character from The Office – bombarded new start Declan McCurdie with cringe-worthy messages.
But Declan, 17, has become an online hero after leaving his job and giving 40-year-old Thomson a taste of his own medicine – calling the manager a “bully” whose “abuse” has done “more damage than good”.
In one message, Thomson – who holds the franchise for Subway’s Ayr central branch – told Declan: “You were c**p last week. This week you are the toilet paper! Much better effort. But still slow as a week in jail. Get to bed early.”
In another, he added: “From now on I want more from you.
“I am building the next best team Subway have ever known. I want you to be part of it but can’t keep paying money for poor staff. It’s up to you big boy. Leave now or put a shift in. I pay you well.”
In another, he appears to criticise Declan’s weight and beard, telling him: “Lose the silly beard thing, it’s bum fluff! The weight will drop soon. Wait till a proper Saturday shift.”
 

Yet another text read: “An honest assessment has been conducted about your work so far.
“Lazy and not listening to others whilst taking far far too long to do any task whilst holding up the team’s progress seems to be how your team members view your contribution to their day. Yikes. Sorry. You need to hugely improve your work or there won’t be any next week.
“Ok. I’ve been fair and given you a huge chance.”
Another said: “Declan. Are we going to see a much improved version of the man we know you can be tomoz? You can do it.”
But in a text that proved to be the last straw for Declan, Thomson said: “Do not answer back. You are a child, we are trying to make you a man. If I hear this happening again... bye bye and good luck.”
But Declan hit back and his response to Thomson has become an internet hit.
He told him: “You are a bully Kenny, you clearly have no people skills. I have repeatedly put up with your immature and abusive texts. I have remained calm and continuously tried to improve myself to you.
“I have logged every single text you have sent me from the start and I’m going to take this further.
“I will be expecting to be paid for what I am owed (45 hours) at the end of the month.
“My uniform will be handed in tomorrow morning. Thanks for giving me the opportunity but you have done me more damage than good.”
Yesterday, Declan confirmed to the Record he had quit after deciding he could take no more abuse.
 

He added: “I’m studying hospitality at college and this was my first job so I have been left pretty upset by the way the whole thing went.
“I was new and so I had to learn but Kenny just turned out to be a complete bully.
“It felt like he was just targeting me all the time.
“I probably was a bit slow because I had to learn the ropes but I was getting there and was trying my best.
“Since the texts have been on the internet I have had emails from people around the world congratulating me for eventually standing up for myself.”
Thomson’s Subway branch’s Facebook page was yesterday inundated with angry messages from members of the public.
One read: “Kenny’s six inches short of a foot-long in deep s**t.”
Kenny was unavailable yesterday but his wife Michelle said: “We have no comment.”
Subway UK and Ireland last night released a statement online, saying: “We are looking into this employment matter as a priority and we will be taking appropriate action following an investigation.”
 

 

Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

