A YOUNG woman yesterday told a court she was so spooked by the actions of a German student who is accused of stalking her that she didn’t open her bedroom curtains for a month.
Midwifery student Georgina Cadby was giving evidence at Paisley Sheriff Court, where 25-year-old Franz Eieresser denies embarking on a course of conduct over a five-month period that caused her to suffer fear and alarm.
She said she was so upset by Eieresser’s behaviour that she became “quite a social recluse” as she was too scared to go out.
Miss Cadby, 19, told the court she would find him waiting for her when she returned from work placements at the Royal Alexandra Hospital, in Paisley, or he would be there when she left her flat to catch a bus on her way to a shift at the town’s maternity unit.
She said: “I felt quite intimidated. I was very scared. If I did go into town, I would take my flat-mate with me as I wasn’t strong enough to deal with confrontation on my own.
“I wasn’t going out as much, not going to events. I would avoid that.
“I felt anxious. A lot of my confidence had gone. I didn’t want to bump into him.”
Miss Cadby added she had pleaded with Eieresser – who is also studying in Paisley, at the University of the West of Scotland – to stay away from her but this had no effect.
“Instead, the calls increased and my anxiety increased,” she said. “He said he had heard me in the shower and said he had seen that I had my light on at night.
“That made me really scared – that he had actually located my bedroom window.
“That really did scare me. For a whole month, I didn’t open the curtains.”
Miss Cadby said she began to suffer panic attacks and anxiety that impacted on her health and was put under so much pressure that she dialled 999 to ask the police to intervene.
She added that a friend who was concerned about her wellbeing advised her to block Eiresser on her mobile phone and all social media websites, to cut him out of her life completely.
Within 20 minutes, said Miss Cadby, Eiresser arrived at the door of her halls of residence accommodation, demanding to be reinstated.
She described the “breaking point” arriving as she began to fear for her own health and said she had tried to outwit him by leaving and arriving back at the halls of residence by different routes.
However, the court also heard Miss Cadby had struck up a relationship with Eieresser during the university’s Freshers’ Week last September and they had been an item up until February this year, when she began to break things off.
It was stated she had a boyfriend, who is serving in the Royal Navy, but had continued to sleep with Eieresser and even stayed over at his flat regularly after returning from the Christmas break.
Defence agent Matt Lynch put it to Miss Cadby that all of her anxiety and difficulties were the result of being caught “two-timing” by her own boyfriend, who discovered she had also been seeing Eieresser.
He added: “All your problems have been substantially of your own making.
“All these difficulties are because your own boyfriend found out about Franz.
“You have been exaggerating everything, put a spin on it.
“You were two-timing both your boyfriends and felt guilty about it.”
Miss Cadby admitted to the court that she had “made mistakes.”
However, she added: “I felt this enforced contact caused difficulty with my anxiety. I felt I was being pressured by this contact.
“I couldn’t even go out in the street.
“I didn’t feel safe in my flat.”
It is claimed that, at the University of the West of Scotland, at halls of residence there and elsewhere on the Paisley campus, Eieresser continually harassed Miss Cadby on a daily basis by sending her text messages or calling her by phone or demanding to know where she was and what she was doing and with whom, that he posted notes through her door, criticised her choice of clothing, repeatedly attended at her accommodation when not welcome, refused to leave and stood around in Storie Street, Paisley, waiting for her to return home, and contacted her friends, demanding to know her whereabouts.
The trial, before Sheriff Susan Sinclair, continues.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

