A COUNCIL have spent thousands resurfacing a &pound;40million bus lane which has never been used.
Glasgow City Council said part of the work at the Clyde Fastlink route was to change sections of the road surface from grey to red.
 Other “improvements” included the fitting of four bus lane cameras to issue fines to car drivers who  stray into the routes. 
Fastlink has been under construction for five years and is intended to serve the new Southern General super-hospital – but it wasn’t ready when the first patients and staff arrived last month.
Meanwhile, workers have chipped away at parts of the road and relaid its surface – even though buses have yet to drive down it.
Steam rollers and other heavy construction equipment have been labouring over sections of the route for the last month.
Piles of red chips were used to replace sections originally laid with grey asphalt.
We told last year how Fastlink – designed to ease congestion – had led to a busy road bridge being half-shut to traffic for 18 months.
Motorists voiced frustration over long queues forming at each end of Glasgow’s Squinty Bridge as 50 per cent of the roadway lay vacant.
The bridge was half-closed in October 2013 and is now due to open to Fastlink buses this month.
The council said Fastlink is meant to “provide the benefits of a tram without the cost and disruption of laying rails”.
Fastlink buses are expected to run from tomorrow with more services starting next week.
Operators McGill’s and &shy;Stagecoach will run buses along the priority route every five minutes on average during weekdays and every 10 minutes &shy;during evenings and Sundays.
The route runs from Glasgow city centre to the hospital via the Broomielaw, Squinty Bridge and Govan Road.
Glasgow City Council said: “Preparatory work at the &shy;Broomielaw and other sections was required for the installation of passenger information systems at bus stops, new signals and other new technology.
“Had we put these in five years ago, they would be outdated and not fit for purpose.
“Red asphalt is being used at the start and end of segregated sections so people know it’s for buses only.
“Investment has been made on signaling upgrades and lane improvements to give buses priority access.
“Other improvements will see real-time passenger information installed at bus stops and bus lane camera enforcement equipment to deter drivers of other vehicles &shy;taking advantage of bus-only routes.”

