A FORMER footballer has been spared jail after climbing up a drainpipe to spy on his ex-girlfriend.
During a two year stalking campaign Martin Hardie terrorised Kirsty MacLeod.
The ex-St Johnstone and Dunfermline midfielder climbed up a drainpipe at her home and also repeatedly turned up Miss MacLeod's work in Braehead shopping centre.
Shamed Hardie admitted at Glasgow Sheriff Court to a stalking charge spanning September 2012 and November 2014.
The 38 year-old, of Clydebank, West Dunbartonshire, was given a community payback order with the condition he must carry out 150 hours of unpaid work.
Sheriff Sean Murphy QC also imposed a non-harrassment order meaning Hardie can't contact Miss MacLeod for two years.
Passing sentence yesterday (Mon) he told Hardie: &quot;You must understand your actions over a considerable period of time, must have been both frightening and alarming to your former partner.&quot;
More news from the courts
 

He said in particular climbing up the drainpipe must have been &quot;extremely intimidating&quot;.
The court heard Miss MacLeod and Hardie were in a relationship from January 2011 until September 2012 before she ended it.
Hardie admitted he &quot;engaged in conduct&quot; which left Miss MacLeod in &quot;fear or alarm&quot;.
The charge he pled guilty to included him turning up Miss MacLeod's flat in the city's Mansewood, clambering up a drainpipe and &quot;did watch or spy on her through a window&quot;.
Procurator fiscal depute Dorothy Roy told the court that in April 2013 Hardie appeared at his ex partner's home.
She said: &quot;She knew it was him from the outline of his figure at the door.&quot;
The court heard he then climbed up the drainpipe and Miss MacLeod called a friend for them to phone Hardie and ask him to leave.
Hardie also repeatedly telephoned and texted Miss MacLeod, including when she got a new car in September 2014.
He sent her two text messages about the car - one with photograph of her new vehicle.
The court heard the ex-footballer showed her up at her work and &quot;attempted to engage in conversation&quot;.
Miss Roy said: &quot;The complainer didn't respond to any text messages and didn't answer the phone.&quot;
She added that in November 2014 Hardie appeared at Miss MacLeod's place of work and &quot;tried to get her attention&quot;.
Miss Roy said Miss MacLeod refused to serve him and another member of staff stepped in.
When Hardie left the shop he said to Miss MacLeod &quot;call me&quot;.
The stalking campaign came to an end in November 2014 when Hardie sent his victim an &quot;abusive and offensive&quot; text message.
Miss Roy said: &quot;As a result of that message the complainer called the police.&quot;
Former midfielder Hardie was a fans favourite at Partick Thistle before joining Kilmarnock in 2003.
He also played for Dunfermline, Kilmarnock, St Johnstone and Morton as well as two spells at Airdrie.

