THE cyclist accused of knocking over a toddler and dragging her face down along a path has hit back saying it’s his life that has been destroyed.
Andrew Holland, 23, insists that CCTV footage that shows him hitting Lucie Wilding has ruined his life and claimed the footage doesn’t show a ‘hit-and-run’.
Three-year-old Lucie suffered injuries to her face after the incident but Holland says he attended a police station twice and also emailed an apology to the Wilding family.
Images from the scene in Blackpool show Holland, who recently finished a degree in computer games design, careering straight into the little girl, before she got caught in the pedals of the bike, forcing him to fall off.
Mum Lauren Howarth, 26, said at the time: &quot;One minute she was behind me and the next she was further along the street, sprawled across the pavement.
&quot;I thought she was dead. There was blood coming from everywhere. She was hysterical, screaming at the top of her lungs.&quot;
But Holland told the Mail Online he had apologised to Lauren and only a shortened version of the video had been shown publicly, whereas the full version showed &quot;much more&quot;.
&quot;Apparently it was a 'hit and run', but it wasn’t,&quot; he said.
 

Lucie's dad Matt, a first responder, ran to pick Lucie up after she was hit and she was taken to Blackpool Victoria Hospital A&amp;E.
The family claim Holland made no effort to check how Lucie was and began swearing at them before getting back on his bike.
Lauren, a carer who is also mum to Katie, six, and six-week-old Ellie, said: &quot;He was on the floor with his head on the pavement. I was expecting him to say 'I'm so sorry, is everyone okay' or something like that but there was nothing.
&quot;As soon as he got up he started swearing at us, as if it was Lucie's fault that he had hit her.
&quot;The next thing we knew he'd gone and we've not heard from him since.
&quot;I know it would have been a shock for him but it would have been nice for him to put a note through the door to check how she is.
&quot;For all he knew, she could be dead.&quot;
 

But Holland's family say he did not flee the scene and was instead driven away by his father George, 64, who happened to be passing in his car, the Mail Online reports.
His mother Linda said: &quot;He didn’t cycle away, he got taken away in a car.&quot;
She said he owned up to the police straight away and is &quot;a quiet lad&quot;.
Lucie is recovering at home but has been left petrified of bikes.
Lauren said: &quot;She's now very nervous of bikes, and we've had to tell her daddy has got rid of the bike to make her feel better.
&quot;But she won't walk across the pavement to the car at the moment, we have to carry her, because she's scared of being hit.
&quot;She's been really brave though, we're really proud of her.&quot;

