IT'S a town facing an economic earthquake if the SNP’s flagship policy of scrapping Trident ever happens.
But voters in Helensburgh still helped to create Nicola Sturgeon’s political earthquake on Thursday.
If the nuclear subs ever leave Faslane, 11,000 jobs could be on the line.
But Argyll and Bute, a Liberal Democrat seat for the past three decades, turned SNP yellow as the party’s candidate Brendan O’Hara won 22,959 votes, 44 per cent of the vote and a majority topping 8000.
But in the town on the morning after the night before, people were optimistic about the future of the area, whatever happens. And they spoke of a new beginning for Scotland as a whole.
Margaret Meadwell, who has lived most of her life in Helensburgh, had never voted for the SNP before.
 The 55-year-old, who co-owns the town’s gift and craft shop Shooftie with Niki Sammon, said: “Previously, I’ve always been  worried about a vote for the SNP because of the base and what it would mean for our community. 
 “That’s what stopped me from voting for independence. I worry that if Faslane goes, then Helensburgh will struggle and  our business is in its infancy. 
“But it’s time to give something new a chance, something to freshen things up.
“It’s about time Scotland got more say and the SNP are the only party who can make it happen.
“I wasn’t going to tell my husband I had voted SNP because he used to work on the base.
“But then he came home and admitted he had too – I couldn’t believe it. People’s opinions around here are changing.”
Niki, 29, who voted Lib Dem at the 2010 general election, added: “Yes, the base is important to Helensburgh but we have lots of other things going for us.
 

“The town is being refreshed as a tourist spot. We have lots of community projects working on that so it will bring more people to the area.
“Perhaps voting for SNP was a risk but a vote for any party is a risk. I was torn right until I put the cross in the box but I’m confident that getting more Scottish seats has to be a good thing.”
Clyde Bar owner John Rapallini, 57, was so strongly in support of the SNP that he repainted the facade of his pub on the town’s seafront with a giant saltire just days before the election.
John admits a lot of his custom comes from Faslane but he doesn’t believe taking Trident away would have any negative impact on the town.
He said: “Trident is a complete waste of money. As far as employment is concerned, I don’t think it’s a big worry for the area. Actually, Trident doesn’t employ that many people.
 “For some reason, people think Helensburgh cannot survive without Trident but look at Largs and Oban – they don’t have  military bases and they survive just fine. 
 “One of my motivations is that I see lots of young people leaving the area to head for London because there’s nothing for  them here. 
“I’m hopeful we will see that change with the SNP having more power.
“A lot of my customers come in and talk to me about politics – and most of them voted SNP.
“That includes people who work at Faslane. There’s a naval officer who comes in and he voted SNP.”
Most Faslane workers we spoke to were reluctant to give anything away about their vote.
One marine engineer, who asked not to be named, said: “There are definitely a lot of colleagues who voted SNP.”
Wendy Buggins, 59, who works in Faslane’s finance department, says the election has been the talk of the base.
She said: “It’s been quite topical and people have been worried about it.
“Some people were complaining that they were losing sleep at night because of the worry.
“I think a majority of people who work at Faslane did vote SNP in the end, even if that meant their jobs might be at risk, because a lot of them are proud Scots and feel the SNP can give them a voice.”
But not everybody is in agreement – with some still fearful of what their new MP might do for the town.
Gordon MacPhail, 69, who worked as a mechanical engineer at the base for 25 years until he retired, used his vote to continue to back the Liberal Democrats.
He said: “Mine was a tactical vote to keep the SNP out. Unfortunately it didn’t work.

“The SNP want to take Trident away from Faslane and shut the base and if that happened then Helensburgh would shut down too.
“It would be the same as it was before they came up here and that wasn’t good.
“Basically, we would be saying, ‘The last person to leave can turn off the lights.’
“I’m just hoping that now the Tories have power, nothing will happen with the base.”
Peter Tindal, 23, who works abroad as a seaman but has a home in Helensburgh, voted for the Tories.
 He said: “I thought the SNP would win anyway. But I just bought a house on the front and I think if we got rid of the base  and sailors, the house prices would drop. 
“This whole area is so dependent on the base and on Trident. I think the area is torn, though. My mum voted SNP and so did my dad.”
Some residents even spoke about the outcome causing a rift in the town.
One business owner said: “I’ve already heard people getting heated about it in my shop so I just try to stay out of it.
“I did vote but people have such strong opinions around here that it would be unwise for me to say which way I voted publicly.
“It’s a touchy subject around here because of Faslane.”

