A COUPLE who scooped a &pound;4million lottery jackpot have bought a new home less than a minute from where they already live.
When they won in January, David and Donna Hendry said they had been thinking of extending their two-bedroom home but were now going to look for a larger place.
The couple, from Mid Calder, West Lothian, haven’t looked far, snapping up a five-bed property less than half a mile away from their current home.
The &pound;300,000 detached house has more room for the couple and their 12-year-old son.
It also has a double garage – perfect for housing the new white BMW X4 that Donna, 44, and David have also bought. Prices for the car start at &pound;45,000.
A luxury Range Rover could also be seen parked at the new property.
A pal said: “David and Donna want to enjoy their win. What’s the point of striking lucky on the Lotto if you are not going to spend? They are not the type of people to watch their cash gathering interest.”
The couple haven’t moved in yet and are carrying out renovations, including fitting a new kitchen.
They have both quit work, with David, 45, leaving his sales engineer post in February, just weeks after the win.
On his LinkedIn page online, he now describes himself as an “international traveller” and says he is “retired and enjoying life”.
A local said: “David and Donna like the area and have good friends here so it’s not really a surprise they haven’t gone far. As the crow flies, it couldn’t be much closer.
“They’ve clearly been enjoying their win and have bought some flashy new stuff, including a car, but they seem determined not to let the win turn their heads too much.
“I’d say good luck to them – it genuinely couldn’t happen to nicer people.”
At the time of their win, David said they planned to keep their feet on the ground and wouldn’t splash the cash too much, maybe indulging in “a couple of cars”.
He said: “We need to keep a level head for our son. We need to think about his exams.”
After discovering they were multi-millionaires, David even took Donna’s Vauxhall Astra for a scheduled MOT before stopping at McDonald’s for breakfast.
The couple, who have been married for 17 years, said they now plan to travel the world – including a stop at Elvis’s mansion in Memphis, Tennessee, for music fan David.
The Hendrys won a &pound;4,078,509 share of the jackpot in a triple rollover after David bought his ticket at Mid Calder post office.

