THEY spent many hours together laughing, talking about football and swapping funny stories.
So when Jak Trueman’s mum was being told the devastating news that he had just days to live, it was Hearts goalkeeper Neil Alexander who was sitting by his side.
The footballer, a dad of three, dashed to the Royal Hospital for Sick Children in Yorkhill, Glasgow, to be with Jak, 15, after his family got in touch to say they weren’t expecting good news.
Former Rangers goalie Neil had first met the brave teen just months earlier after his wife Joanne had spotted the youngster’s social media campaign to raise money for causes close to his heart.
Now three months on from the schoolboy’s death from a rare type of cancer, the couple are working with Jak’s family to promote a charity set up in his name which will help other cancer patients and their loved ones.
While Neil and Joanne admit they normally do all they can to keep out of the limelight, they say they are happy to do anything to help secure Jak’s last wishes.
Neil, 37, said: “He was such an amazing young lad and I truly feel very lucky to have known him. From the minute we met, we just clicked.
“Even though I was only in his life for such a short time, he has made a lasting impact on mine.
“The way he handled everything that was happening to him was so humbling – you couldn’t help but be inspired by him.”

Joanne, 35, added: “We both felt deeply moved by Jak’s story from the minute I saw his photo on social media. He captured our hearts.”
West Calder High School pupil Jak – named last week as our Young Scot 2015 at the Sunday Mail Young Scot Awards – died in February this year, just six months after being diagnosed with gamma delta T-cell lymphoma.
Neil’s friendship with Jak began last October after Joanne saw his blog, Jak’s Journey, online.
Deeply moved by his bravery, she sent a private message to the young football fan’s mum, Allison Barr, asking if there was anything they could do to help.
Days later, Neil went to visit Jak while he was undergoing gruelling cancer treatment at the Sick Children’s Hospital in Edinburgh.
Joanne said: “When Jak’s photograph first came up on &shy;Facebook – standing in his &shy;goalkeeper top, with his gloves on and with such a beautiful huge smile – it just tugged at my heart.
“As a parent, you can’t help but be moved and I know if it had been one of my children going through all that, I would have done anything for &shy;someone to come along for just half an hour and take their mind off it all.

“I sent Allison a message explaining that Neil was a goalie like her son and asking if there was anything we could do.
“She got back in touch saying she knew Jak would love it if Neil could pop in and visit him and Neil was delighted to do it.”
Neil arrived at the hospital and when he left an hour later, he said he knew he had made a good friend.
The footballer said: “Jak was quite a quiet natured lad but at the same time, he was very easy to talk to and we had a lot in common.
“He loved football – and was a Rangers fan and I used to play for Rangers. He was a goalie too so we shared lots of football stories. The time just flew by.”
Jak and Neil kept in touch by text and phone – with the Hearts goalie dropping in after training.
Joanne also kept in regular contact with Allison. She said: “We hoped things were going well for Jak, and he was admitted to Yorkhill Hospital for a bone marrow transplant – then Allison called to say things weren’t good.
“She asked if Neil could go in to be with Jak – to take his mind off things – while she was seeing his consultant.”
Neil said: “By that stage, things were tough but Jak was still his amazing self. He was so strong, just like his mum and the rest of his family.”
Neil did all he could to keep up Jak’s spirits along with his grandparents and sister Aimie, while the news was broken to Allison that her son had just a few weeks to live.
When she returned to Jak’s room, Neil left the family alone and Allison told her son there was nothing more the doctors could do.
Within just hours of the devastating news, Jak was on his way home from hospital armed with a bucket list of things he wanted to see and do before he died.
One of his priorities was to raise money to help others with cancer. When he died just 10 days later, he had raised more than &pound;60,000 for &shy;Leukaemia and Lymphoma Research.
He had also attended a hastily organised school prom with his girlfriend, Hannah Boyd, and hosted a huge party for his family and friends – with Neil surprising Jak by bringing one of his former Rangers heroes, Nacho Novo, along with him.
Neil said: “I last saw Jak just two days before he died. He was such a courageous boy.”
He and Joanne were heartbroken when they got a call to say he had died.

The couple were among hundreds of mourners at his funeral where Neil read a poem. He said: “I can play &shy;football in front of 50,000 people and not feel a bit nervous, but &shy;standing up to talk in front of lots of people is totally different.”
The keeper says he felt deeply honoured when Allison asked him to become patron of the charity set up in her son’s memory.
The Team Jak Foundation have been created to support not only young cancer patients but any young people with a debilitating illness and their families.
The charity aim to set up Jak’s Den, a purpose-built centre offering everything from counselling to Scotland’s first neutropenic cafe for cancer patients and anyone else with a low immune system.
The foundation will also continue to raise awareness for the need for blood and bone marrow donors, and continue to support &shy;Leukaemia and Lymphoma Research, the Sick Children’s Hospital in Edinburgh and St John’s Hospital in Livingston, West Lothian.
One of Neil’s first jobs as the charity’s patron was to ensure that all his Hearts team-mates were wearing Team Jak charity wristbands as they were presented with the Championship trophy at Tynecastle last weekend.
And Neil admits his only sadness was that Jak wasn’t there to see it.
He said: “We talked about him coming to the last game of the season which was against his team. We joked he’d have to sit quietly in the Hearts end but, sadly, that’s not how things worked out.
“Jak touched the hearts of so many people. I know he has certainly taught me not to take anything in life for granted and to appreciate what is truly important all the more.”

