A man who was battered by his girlfriend after refusing to have sex has told how he’s forgiven her for the attack.
Scott Bryce was assaulted by partner Cheryl Hamilton after he rejected her advances.
Hamilton, 31, attacked Scott, 28, twice within hours when he repeatedly knocked back her demands.
Yesterday, Scott said they had put the incident behind them and were planning a future together.
But Hamilton claims she has been unfairly portrayed by police as a “mad nymphomaniac” after she was convicted of domestic abuse.
Scott says Hamilton – who he has been dating since October – went berserk after drinking too much.
He said: “It was a bad situation that got out of hand but I’m not a domestic abuse victim.
 “We had both been drinking heavily that day and Cheryl got some bad news about an  ex-boyfriend which she found difficult to cope with. 
“Cheryl just pleaded guilty to get the court case over with quickly. But we’re very much still together and looking forward to the future.
“What happened was a one-off and we’re putting it behind us.”
The attack happened in the couple’s Kilmarnock home on April 15.
Scott told police he initially agreed to have sex with Hamilton but she flipped out when he changed his mind.
Hamilton was arrested and appeared from custody at the town’s sheriff court.
Prosecutors claimed that Hamilton repeatedly hit Scott on the head after her demands for sex were rejected.
When he rebuffed her advances for a second time later in the evening, she repeatedly hit him on the side of the head. Hamilton – who claims she has been a domestic abuse victim in the past – had sentence deferred for six months for good behaviour last Tuesday.
Sheriff Alistair Watson said he would review her behaviour in three months. She pleaded guilty to domestic abuse at an earlier hearing.
Hamilton denies she attacked Scott because he knocked her back for sex – and claims she had already had a romp with him before being lifted by police.
She said: “I put my hands up to it as soon as the police came in.
“I admitted I hit Scott and it was the wrong thing to do.
“I’ve been the victim of domestic abuse in previous relationships so I know how horrible it is.
 “But the police have made me out to be a mad nymphomaniac, which is unfair. We’d already had sex – I didn’t want any more. It’s been a huge misunderstanding and it’s embarrassing. I just wanted the whole court case  over with. I didn’t want anyone forced into giving evidence. 
“If the roles had been reversed, I’m sure Scott would have been sent to prison. He may even have been put on the sex offenders’ register. So I know I’m lucky.”
Lynda Bell, of the Scottish Domestic Abuse helpline, said they are not able to comment on specific cases.
But she added: “However, we trust that all reports of crime, investigations and subsequent court proceedings and judgments are carried out in a manner that is based on equality and not gender-based.”
 Try your hand at our news quiz 

