THIS time last year Heather Williams was coping with the news that she had cervical cancer.
Twelve months later, the 28-year-old has just returned from her dream honeymoon and yesterday was the VIP starter of the Cancer Research Race for Life.
Sounding the airhorn for the event at Hopetoun House, near Edinburgh, Heather paid tribute to her new husband for helping her fight the disease.
She said: “Gordon has stuck by me through it all. He even went without sleep after working night shift last night to come and cheer me on today.”
Sports development worker Heather and her pet dog Parsnip were official starters for the 5K and 10K events in South Queensferry.
It’s just over a year since Heather was told the shock news that she had a rare form of cervical cancer and underwent radiotherapy and &shy;chemotherapy.
She battled back to fitness and yesterday Heather, from Edinburgh, lead an army of around 1250 pink ladies taking part in the run.
Heather made a heartfelt speech to the crowd, and told of the invaluable support of her husband, police sergeant Gordon Duff.
She married Gordon on the shores of Loch Lomond on April 11, almost exactly a year after the devastating cancer diagnosis.
After sounding the airhorn Heather joined her team of 15 from Edinburgh Leisure as well as fellow cancer &shy;survivors and people taking part in celebration of their loved ones on the course.
 

Heather said: “It’s an honour to be VIP but hugely emotional too. What a difference a year makes. Last April I experienced the worst day of my life and this spring I had the happiest day of my life.
“My wedding day was everything I’d hoped for and more.
“Now to be chosen to start the Race for Life is another wonderful positive.
“When I was told I had a tumour, I felt like my life as I’d known it was gone.”
Heather – who ran her first &shy;marathon at Loch Ness only months before being diagnosed – visited her GP in January last year after &shy;experiencing pain in her pelvis.
Despite four visits to the doctor, Heather’s symptoms persisted so she was referred to the gynaecology department at Edinburgh Royal &shy;Infirmary, where she was diagnosed with cancer, aged just 27.
Heather’s six-week treatment plan included 23 sessions of radiotherapy and five sessions of chemotherapy.
It was a huge relief when tests last August showed she was in remission.
Now Heather has set herself a new challenge – a list of 30 things to do before she turns 30.
They include everything from sky diving and bagging a munro, to getting a tattoo and eating breakfast in New York.
And Heather – who has just jetted home from a dream honeymoon in Thailand – is determined to do as many as possible with her new hubby by her side.
 

She added: “Look at me – I’m under 30, I’m fit, I watch what I eat and I exercise, I’m a non-smoker and I don’t drink much. If I can get cancer, anyone can.
“We need to keep fighting back and the only way we’ll do that is by raising money through events like Race For Life so that Cancer Research UK can keep working to find a cure.”
Cancer Research UK’s Race for Life, in partnership with Tesco, is an inspiring women-only series of 5k, 10k, Pretty Muddy and Marathon events which raises millions of pounds every year to help beat 200 different types of cancer. Last year, almost 46,000 women took part in Race for Life in Scotland and raised a fantastic &pound;2.9million.
Organisers are now urging women to return their sponsorship money to help pioneering research.
Every hour, around three people are diagnosed with cancer in &shy;Scotland and the number of people being diagnosed with cancer has now reached 30,200 cases each year.
Race for Life event manager for Hopetoun House, Cara Inglis said: “The support people across &shy;Edinburgh, South and North Queensferry have shown is &shy;absolutely tremendous and we are thrilled so many women took part in Race for Life.
“We want to say a heartfelt thanks to everyone who took part or supported our &shy;participants, as well as the wonderful volunteers who helped to make it happen.
“Sadly, most of us know someone whose life has been touched by cancer.
 

“But thanks to the huge progress that has been made in the fight against the disease, more people in &shy;Scotland are surviving cancer than ever before.
“Our aim is that one day everyone will beat cancer.
“The more research we can fund, the sooner that day will come.
“Now the big day is over, we are asking our supporters to take one last step-by returning the money they have raised so that we can go on funding much needed research.”
Money raised through Race for Life allows Cancer Research UK’s doctors, nurses and scientists to advance research which is helping to save the lives of men, women and children across Scotland.
 

 Try our quick news quiz below: 

