T IN THE PARK'S move from Balado to Strathallan has been approved by Perth &amp; Kinross council after months of uncertainty.
The music festival’s new location was in doubt due to protests that it would impact on local wildlife including a pair of nesting ospreys.
Other concerns were also raised about wildlife and traffic at the site chosen by festival bosses after they were forced from away from their former home at Balado, Kinross over health and safety fears due to a gas pipeline under the former airfield.
DF Concerts boss Geoff Ellis and representatives faced a grilling over his plans for the event.
But councillors, meeting at a packed Dewar's centre in Perth, agreed with their recent Development Management Committee's recommendation that the festival should be given the go-ahead.
The weekender will now take place across 325 hectares of Strathallan farm land overlooked by Strathallan Castle.
Convenor Tom Gray seconded the motion to approve the festival plans.
He said: &quot;I don't know of a single osprey who has topped itself because it has been forced from its nest.
&quot;Scotland is a big wild place and there are a lot more Ospreys than there were many years ago. Fishermen killed them to protect their catch.
&quot;It wasn't people who liked music who killed them.
&quot;Their numbers are growing.
&quot;Mark my words, Ospreys were a problem before and they will be a problem again.&quot;

But councillor Tom Kellas who made the motion to approve distanced himself from the convenor's comments.
The decision is a relief to organisers who lobbied locals, businesses and wildlife organisations in the hope that the deal would go through.
T in the Park can now be held for the next three years before a review of the impact on the local area.
In the meantime, council officials will keep an eye on festival organisers DF Concerts to make sure recommendations to minimise the impact of the festival upon wildlife in and around the site.
The news will also be welcomed by the 85,000 music fans expected to descend on the new site to see a raft of top acts already confirmed, including Noel Gallagher’s High Flying Birds, The Prodigy and dance star Avicii from July 10-12.
Strathallan T Action Group (STAG) had complained that noise and lights as well as the number of people attending the festival, would adversely affect nesting ospreys arrived back from Africa to breed.
There were also concerns about species such as badger, bats and kingfishers as well as ancient woodland.
Ellis said: &quot;T in the Park is woven into the very fabric of our culture and is a rite of passage for Scottish music lovers.
&quot;It provides a Scottish stage for a plethora of global stars.
&quot;As Scotland's leading event management company we are committed to protecting the wildlife.
&quot;With regard to the ospreys we have agreed a sustainable distance from the nest and we are working with a leading ornithologist.
&quot;We will not rest on our laurels and will continue to work to improve.&quot;

Ellis was also asked if charitable donations would be made by DF Concerts to benefit local community organisations and insisted these would be on a par with those made to a Kinross-shire fund during the festival's time at Balado.
The council agreed that DF Concerts had put sufficient plans in place to minimise disruption, despite robust objections, including a claim that approval would be &quot;unlawful&quot; and made a &quot;mockery of the planning process&quot;.
They approved the application for a temporary period to allow for a single event (music festival) to take place in 2015, 2016 and 2017.
Members of protest group STAG declined to comment on the decision.
There will be 7,500 staff employed over the weekend, which is expected to generate close to &pound;3 million for the local economy.
There were 1626 letters of objection received by the council and 793 letters of support, as well as a petition with 1922 signatures in support of the application.
T in the Park will be open to the public over a five day period.
Campers will be allowed to arrive from 11am on Thursday, July 9 with before the event site is closed to the public at 4pm on Monday, July 13.
Tickets are available through Ticketmaster.

