 A WOMAN was seriously injured in her own garden yesterday when she was struck by a car which ploughed through her fence . 
The 59-year-old victim, named locally as Jean Wallace, was left with blood pouring from head wounds and also suffered leg injuries in the horror accident.
It’s thought the driver of a red Ford Focus took ill at the wheel and lost control of his vehicle before careering into a grey Nissan Qashqai, which was then shunted through Jean’s metal fence and collided with her.
One source told the Paisley Daily Express: “It seems Jean was in her garden at the time, chatting to someone who had been in the Nissan.
“When the Ford Focus crashed into the Nissan, it sent the other car through Jean’s fence and that’s how she ended up getting hurt.
“It must have been quite an impact because the fence was left mangled and both the Nissan and the Focus were badly damaged.
“The poor woman didn’t stand a chance of getting out of the way. It looks like she ended up trapped under the Nissan and suffered crush injuries.”
More local news from Paisley and District
Ambulance crews, police and firefighters were all called to the scene of the accident, which took place in Ness Road, close to its junction with Kirklandneuk Road, in Renfrew, at around 12.10pm.
Neighbours said they heard a loud bang and, when they looked outside, they could see two badly-damaged cars at the entrance to Jean’s garden.
One resident in Ness Road, who asked not to be named, said: “I could see Jean lying on the ground and there was blood pouring from her head.
“Thankfully, the ambulance got here pretty quickly and the paramedics were able to get her to hospital for treatment.
“Jean is a lovely woman and everyone in the street knows her.
“We’re all hoping she makes a full recovery.”
Jean was taken to the new South Glasgow University Hospital, where her condition was described as “serious but stable” yesterday afternoon.
The drivers of both vehicles involved in the crash were also taken to hospital but are not thought to be seriously injured.
Police have confirmed an investigation is continuing, with witnesses asked to come forward.
Inspector Steven Espie, who is based at Johnstone Police Office, said: “At around 12.10pm, officers were called to a report of a road traffic accident in Ness Road, in which two cars had been damaged before ending up in a front garden.
“A 59-year-old woman who was injured at the scene was taken to hospital, where her condition is described as serious but stable.
“The drivers of both cars were also taken to hospital.
“Anyone who witnessed the accident is asked to call the police on 101.”

