THE plot of a Scots author’s new novel echoes the real life tale of the Faslane whistleblower.
Campbell Hart’s book The Nationalist tells how a disgruntled naval officer gives out military secrets about the nuclear submarine base on the Clyde.
 The novel was published  just two weeks before Able Seaman William McNeilly released a dossier detailing allegations about Trident subs at Faslane. 
But Hart, 41, is hoping that the similarities end there.
In his book the leak  ultimately results in a terror attack on the Clyde facility.
He said: “I have to say I was pretty surprised when I read about the Faslane whistleblower because it bore such an obvious similarity to the plot of my book.
 “In The Nationalist the  information is used to plan a bombing raid on Faslane , so hopefully real life doesn’t  mirror art completely. 
“I’ve always been interested in the reaction to events rather than the events themselves, and the book explores the  pressures between the state, police, media and the public.
“So it has been interesting  to see how the real life whistleblower’s story has unfolded.
“It just goes to show that sometimes fact can be stranger than fiction.”
McNeilly, 25, went AWOL last week after releasing the dossier detailing allegations about Trident submarines.
 

He highlighted 30 alleged safety and security flaws on the submarines and claimed it was “a matter of time before we’re infiltrated by a psychopath or a terrorist”.
 He was later arrested at Edinburgh airport and is now in MoD custody. 
Writer Hart said: “Growing up in Ayrshire in the 1980s, the nuclear threat was something that got talked about a lot. Today it’s something we seem to have forgotten about.
“Although the peace camp still exists at Faslane, the  anti-nuclear campaign doesn’t seem to have the same legs – but that’s not to say the sites aren’t still potential targets.
 

“In my book, Faslane becomes the end point for a terror attack.
“A disgruntled Petty Officer gives out sensitive data to a militant group of armed veterans.
“The book then culminates in a bombing run on the  Clydeside base.
“Of course it’s fiction – but when you see what this  real-life whistleblower has to say about security  vulnerabilities perhaps the plot isn’t as far-fetched as it might first appear.”
The Nationalist is the second book in a trilogy featuring DI John Arbogast and is available to download from Amazon.
The final book in the series, Referendum, is to be released in 2016.

