A GANG of firebugs caused more than &pound;6000 worth of damage after going on a vehicle burning spree.
Finn Allan woke to discover his new motorcycle engulfed in a ball of flames - and his flatmates two bikes and a Land Rover Discovery also on fire.
All four vehicles were completely destroyed in the fireball.
The 18-year-old had saved up for more than a year to buy the &pound;3,500 AJS Daytona in January this year.
 But now he has been left devastated after a gang of youths wrote it off by dousing it with petrol and setting it alight in Edinburgh on Monday morning. 
A burning Mercedes Benz was also discovered in a nearby street which is believed to have targeted by the same gang.
Finn said: “I got woken up at about quarter past two in the morning by my flatmates thumping on my door saying the motorbikes had been set on fire.
“I looked out the window and all I could see was an orange ball of flames basically coating all three motorcycles and the front end of the Land Rover.
“We ran downstairs to try and move the car but by the time we got down there, the radiator had popped and two of the three bikes petrol tanks had exploded.
“It was basically just a lost cause from that point on. All we could do is stand and watch as it happened. It ended up being being four vehicles written off in one sweep.”
The teen said investigators had discovered his bike was the initial target judging by the petrol stains on the ground.
He added that police had also caught what they believe to be the three young culprits on CCTV at a nearby primary school, armed with a petrol canister.
Finn added: “I’d been saving up for the bike for around a year and my dad helped me pay off the last bit.
“Now it’s completely written off and I’m having to call in a lot of favours to get to and from work at the airport.
“This has been going on for so long now in this area and it’s affecting so many people. “Something needs to be done about it because it’s ruining people’s lives and ruining their hard work.
“It’s jealousy from those that can’t or don’t want to work so they’re taking everything away from those that do.
“We’re so thankful for all the support we’ve received from friends and family on social media who have been sharing the picture of the burnt out bikes to try catch the kids who did this.”
 A Police Scotland spokeswoman said an investigation into the series of vehicle fires had been launched. 
She said: “The incidents occurred in the early hours of Monday, May 25, in Wardieburn Place South and Wardieburn Street West.
“The first incident was reported in Wardieburn Place South at around 2.20am when a Land Rover Discovery was found to be alight along with two motorcycles.
 “The Scottish Fire and Rescue Service (SFRS) attended and the fires were quickly extinguished. 
“Upon arrival SFRS also noticed that a further vehicle, a Mercedes Benz, was also alight in Wardieburn Street West. This fire was also extinguished.
“All four fires are believed to be suspicious and police are now investigating to establish if there is a link between both incidents.
“Anyone with information is asked to contact Police Scotland on 101 or anonymously through Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.”
 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

