THE family of a 91-year-old rape victim have told how she wishes she was dead – as the monster who attacked her was caged for 12 years.
Teenager Kriss Strachan forced his way into the pensioner’s home before carrying out the horrifying assault.
After the scumbag – who was just 17 at the time of the attack – was sentenced yesterday, the elderly woman’s daughter said: “This crime has completely destroyed my mum, who up until that day lived on her own, did her own housework, shopping, socialising and enjoyed her own independence.
“Now she is totally dependent on me and talks every day about how she wishes she was dead.
“Thinking about what happened and the devastating impact this has had on her has been very distressing for our entire family and we do our best to love and support her – but life will never be the same for any of us.
“Whatever the sentence, it won’t change what happened but at least we can try and move forward with our lives knowing Strachan is behind bars and can’t hurt anyone else.”
Strachan, now 18, pounced on his defenceless victim after a party last July. He broke into her house in Bellshill, Lanarkshire, and punched and choked the OAP before raping her.
He threatened to kill the woman as she battled bravely to fight him off.
Vile Strachan – who has been disowned by his family – was arrested after confessing his crimes to his mother, who ordered him to go to the police.
Sentencing him at the High Court in Edinburgh yesterday, Judge Lord Boyd told Strachan he had carried out a “cruel and degrading attack”.
 He noted the victim suffered “extensive bruising” and told Strachan he had “infected” her “with a  sexually transmitted disease”. He said the attack had a “truly appalling” impact on the victim. 
The judge added: “I can only hope that one day you might begin to understand the full gravity of what you have done – the pain, suffering and humiliation you inflicted on this lady.”
Lord Boyd ordered that Strachan – who pled guilty in November – be supervised for seven years after his release.
As Strachan was being taken down to the cells, one relative shouted: “Shame on you, Kriss! Scumbag!”
Detective Inspector John Lamb said: “What Kriss Strachan did was completely and utterly despicable.
“His actions robbed an elderly woman of her independence and she is now a shadow of her former self who is unable to return to her home.
 “Kriss Strachan is behind bars because he is a very dangerous individual who has caused an  indescribable amount of damage to many people.” 
Last night, the victim’s daughter added: “I’d like to take this opportunity to say that mum and our family do not in any way blame Kriss’s mother for what happened. We are aware of the horrendous impact this has had on her life too.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

