DISABILITY benefits firm Atos have agreed to answer for their actions by appearing before Holyrood’s welfare committee, the Daily Record can reveal.
The bosses will face tough questions by MSPs desperate to grill them for the role they played in carrying out hated Tory welfare reforms.
Atos conducts assessments for Personal Independence Payments (PIP), which replace the old disability living allowance.
The French-owned company previously ditched a lucrative &pound;500million Government contract to carry out work capability assessments.
Representatives will take part in the public session on June 23.
Committee members will also visit an assessment to see first-hand how the process works.
Labour MSP Michael McMahon, who convenes the welfare committee, said: “It is safe to say that our committee has heard a lot of criticism of the role Atos has played in the changes which have been made to the welfare system so we have been keen to put to them, and their sub-contractor Salus, the concerns raised by those many individuals and organisations.
“I welcome the decision by Atos to agree to come before the Welfare Reform Committee and to give evidence on the PIP assessments which they are carrying out.”
 

Atos were previously invited to face questions on work capability assessments but no meeting was ever agreed. MSPs visited an assessment centre instead.
An Atos spokesman said: “We are keen that people understand our role in delivering PIP and have always engaged fully with the Welfare Reform Committee.
“We wrote to them after the last Your Say session asking if they would like to visit a site and meet our health professionals and when asked to come in front of the committee we accepted.”
McMahon’s committee have focused on the impact of David Cameron’s reforms and the impact they’ve had on poorer Scots.
But their work has been hampered by repeat refusals by Tory ministers like Iain Duncan Smith to face up to their policies in Scotland. Benefits axewoman Esther McVey was dumped by her constituents at the general election.
Cameron put fellow Tory MP Priti Patel in charge after securing his shock majority this month.
A Department for Work and Pensions spokesman defended the Government’s welfare reforms, saying: “PIP is designed to better reflect today’s understanding of disability.”
SNP MSP Claire Adamson, who sits on the welfare committee, said: “It is only right Atos have at last accepted the need to come before the Welfare Committee of the Scottish Parliament, there should never have been any resistance.
“And no longer can Tory Government ministers hide from answering questions at Scotland’s parliament – the sooner the organ grinder Iain Duncan Smith comes to explain decisions which make life difficult for so many vulnerable Scots, the better.”
Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

