The foul Bank Holiday weather may finally improve today – but keep your brolly handy because it will not last.
After a miserable start to the weekend, with wind, downpours and even snow in some parts, forecasters are expecting another deluge tomorrow.
Marco Petagna from the Met Office said: “I think the message to people is to enjoy the nicer weather on Monday while they can. Tuesday is going to be wetter in most parts of the country during the day.”
The mercury could hit 18C today, after a weekend when snow fell on the Scottish Highlands. Mr Petagna said: “As we go through Bank Holiday Monday, rain will be mainly confined to Shetland.
“But most of the rest of the UK will enjoy a lot of dry, bright weather, with a few showers around, towards the West of the country and Northern Ireland.
“Later in the day there may be some showers in the South West, but for the bulk of the day it will be dry. Temperatures in the sunshine will be doing quite well, and we will be in the low to mid-teens, which is a little bit above average.
“In fact, in the South we could be seeing a high of about 18C, which is well above average for the time of year.
“Monday is definitely a contrast to the rest of the Bank Holiday weekend.”
Mr Petagna warned, however: “There will be a bit of breeze blowing on Monday and it will be quite a fresh at times.”
And there will be more wet weather ahead of the return to work tomorrow.
Mr Petagna said: “We will be having more rain coming up from the South on Monday night along the south coast, leading into Tuesday morning. There will be rain in most areas, with cloudy outbreaks of rain.
“The far north of Scotland and the South East of England will just about escape the worst of the rain during Tuesday. On the whole there will be a lot of cloud across the UK, with heavy rain across northern England, Wales and the South West of England, with strong winds in parts.”
He added: “Wednesday looks as though it is going to be another showery day for most of the country.
“It will be a brighter day, but it will be quite windy in the North, with even severe gales in a few spots.”
Forecasters expect more rain on Thursday but by Friday it should be dry and settled in most parts.
However, the unsettled weather is to continue into next week, especially in the North, where there is a chance of overnight frost, although it will be drier and brighter in the South.
 Try your hand at our showbiz quiz 

