MORE than 6,000 people have signed a petition calling for the north of England to 'secede from the UK and join Scotland'.
The petition, on Change.org, was created during the Scottish independence campaign last year, but has seen a rise in signatures following the Conservative Party’s win in last week’s general election.
At the time of writing, a total of 6,277 people had signed the petition.
The petition states: &quot;The deliberations in Westminster are becoming increasingly irrelevant to the north of England. The northern cities feel far greater affinity with their Scottish counterparts such as Glasgow and Edinburgh than with the ideologies of the London-centric south.
&quot;The needs and challenges of the north cannot be understood by the endless parade of old Etonions lining the frontbenches of the House of Commons. The north of England should join the newly independent Scotland and regain control over its own destiny.
&quot;We, the people of the north, demand that in the event that Scotland becomes independent the border between England and the New Scotland be drawn along a line that runs between the River Dee and the mouth of The Humber.&quot;
One supporter, Dom Bell from Sunderland, wrote: &quot;We would benefit better in Scotland&quot;
Matthew Parker, from Darton, Yorkshire, added: &quot;The north of England is inadequately represented in the London Government. We have more in common with Scotland than the South.&quot;
Meanwhile Eryl Whiteley, from Huddersfield, wrote: &quot;I want to be part of Scotland not Westminster and have more control over our destiny. Westminster do not know anything about the North and they don't want to. Home Rule for the North&quot;
Tom Woods from Ulverston, Cumbria, added: &quot;I'm signing because I am fed up of being treated like a second class citizen by the south of the country as usual and I want to be a part of Scotland like it was historically.&quot;
Despite being closed, the petition has been gathering signatures since last Thursday’s vote, thanks to the #TakeUsWithYouScotland hashtag on Twitter.
Take a look at our gallery of 29 reasons why Scotland is awesome.

Then take a look at  19 questions we've always wanted to ask England.
And read our message -  Dear England: Here are 24 things we’d like to apologise for, love Scotland.
Find out how  Prime Minister David Cameron said there will be NO second Scottish independence referendum.
