CCTV footage of a brazen thief who snatched a woman’s bag inside a packed city pub has gone viral after being shared online.
Martina Cannon was enjoying a night out at the Drouthy Neebors bar in Edinburgh on Friday evening when the man made off with her handbag and its contents.
The singer managed to get hold of a copy of the CCTV footage and shared it on Facebook, urging anyone who can identify the man involved to get in touch.
Sharing the video, she wrote: “Here is clear footage of the dirty rotten rat stealing my bag from Drouthy nebors on Friday night, can everyone please share this video to help me catch him, someone must know him.
“Your help is much appreciated. This man is the scum of the earth, lowest of the low and must be stopped, looks like he knows what he’s doing.
“The bag was a Harris Tweed, McKenzie tartan, blue and black. My phone was a white samsung galaxy s2 with a red case. Let me at um…!”
The video has gone viral since it was uploaded by Martina on May 10, receiving more than 300,000 views.
 

Gutted Martina, who had been performing at the pub, had only left her bag unattended for around five minutes after going to the bar to get a drink.
She said: “I had done my set, and was up at the bar talking to someone and ordering a drink. I was away from my bag for five minutes. I looked for it, and it wasn’t there.
“I tried to ring the phone, and it was off, so I knew it was gone, because the phone was fully charged.
“We knew it has to be someone who had come in and out, because just about everyone on that side of the bar was a friend.
“He’s probably done it before, plenty of times. I’ve watched the footage back so many times, and I’m just really, really angry about it. He just walked right past me – I probably even looked at him for a second or two, and thought nothing of it, just like everyone else.”
The man has yet to be traced.
Police Scotland said they had yet to receive a theft report for this incident.
Do you think you recognise the handbag thief? Give us a call on 0141 309 3251
Try today's quick quiz:

