 OVER 40,000 people have signed a petition calling for northern England to breakway from the rest of the country and join an independent Scotland. 
 The Change.org petition, which was launched during last year's referendum campaign, has seen an increase in signatures in the wake of the Conservatives winning a majority in last week's general election. 
The surge has seen 40,753 supporters (at the time of writing) sign the petition which states: &quot;The deliberations in Westminster are becoming increasingly irrelevant to the north of England. The northern cities feel far greater affinity with their Scottish counterparts such as Glasgow and Edinburgh than with the ideologies of the London-centric south.
&quot;The needs and challenges of the north cannot be understood by the endless parade of old Etonions lining the frontbenches of the House of Commons. The north of England should join the newly independent Scotland and regain control over its own destiny.
&quot;We, the people of the north, demand that in the event that Scotland becomes independent the border between England and the New Scotland be drawn along a line that runs between the River Dee and the mouth of The Humber.&quot;
 

One supporter, Dom Bell from Sunderland, wrote: &quot;We would benefit better in Scotland&quot;
Matthew Parker, from Darton, Yorkshire, added: &quot;The north of England is inadequately represented in the London Government. We have more in common with Scotland than the South.&quot;
 Martyn White, from Whitby, said: &quot;I'm signing this because I can't face another 5 years of Thatcherism. Plus Scotland is just as cool, friendly and pretty as the North of England. And those Westminster suits don't deserve it!&quot; 
Tom Woods from Ulverston, Cumbria, added: &quot;I'm signing because I am fed up of being treated like a second class citizen by the south of the country as usual and I want to be a part of Scotland like it was historically.&quot;
Scottish supporter Alastair Perry, who lives in Carlisle, wrote: &quot;I am Scottish but have lived in England for more than two thirds of my life. I travel all over Cumbria with my work and it is abundantly evident to me that the people of Northern England have for more in common with the Scots than they do with the folks of Southern England.&quot;
 Despite being closed, the petition has been gathering signatures since last Thursday’s vote, thanks to the #TakeUsWithYouScotland hashtag on Twitter. 
 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

