A SCOTS bride was left gobsmacked when her celebrity heartthrob sent her a touching message on her wedding day.
Hayley Campbell, 29, was listening to her brother Alan Leitch’s speech at her wedding in Cyprus on Friday when ex-Eastenders star Sean Maguire appeared on a video screen and began talking to her and her new husband Andy, 36.
Thoughtful Alan, 40, came up with the idea because he remembered his sister used to kiss the actor and singer’s poster when she was a youngster.
But Hayley, from Alexandria, West Dunbartonshire, was left red faced when the Grange Hill star revealed to her guests that she couldn’t pronounce his name when she was little - calling him ‘Sean Magoor’.
Check our dedicated weddings section
 

Alan uploaded the clip to YouTube so family and friends could watch the special moment again at the weekend and it has since been viewed and shared thousands of times, with the former pop star even posting it on his own Facebook page.
Sean - who played footballer Aidan Brosnan in Eastenders in the 90s before launching a pop career - took the time out of a trip to LA to film the message after Alan emailed his agent asking for help.
In the clip, the 39-year-old says: “He told me she used to have a little bit if a crush on me and apparently I was in the running at one point, but this Andy guy has now taken me out of the picture, so she won’t get to be Mrs Magoor - yes I know about that, and the poster.
“I’m very touched and so excited for you guys. I just got married myself and it’s wonderful.
“I wish you all the best for a long, happy loving relationship.”
 

Mum-of-one Hayley, who are still on honeymoon in Protaras, Cyprus, said she is delighted with the message, which brought back fond memories from her childhood - though husband Andy wasn’t too thrilled to see his wife’s first crush on their big day.
She said: “I remember having the poster and kissing it. I guess I was a bit of a megafan.
“It was amazing for him to take the time to do that. At first I didn’t realise it was Sean. I was not expecting it at all and everybody really enjoyed it.
“He is a wee darling.”
Since Alan shared the video online it has been viewed by around 9,000 people.
He said: “At first he was just going to write me a note then I asked if a video would save him time and Sean said ‘that’s a great idea’.
“It really made the day.”
 Try today's quick quiz: 

