 ALEX Neil has been hailed the new Special One as he led his team’s unlikely march to the world’s biggest football league. 
 But Neil – who is about to become the only Scots manager in the English Premier League – insists the special one in his family is mum Anne-Marie, who took a 570-mile round trip from Coatbridge to every Norwich City home match since her son took over the club in January . 
Anne-Marie – known as Debs – and husband Davie McMillan lapped up the Wembley celebrations on Monday with 15 family members as 33-year-old Alex’s team beat Middlesbrough in a match reckoned to be worth &pound;130million to club bosses Delia Smith and co.
They partied until the hotel bar ran dry with Norwich players and superfans such as comic Stephen Fry, as the footballing world hailed the most talked-about young manager in decades.
 

Football mad Anne-Marie, headteacher at St Monica’s Primary, Coatbridge, where Alex played in his first team, laughed when she read an article in which Alex said he wasn’t bothered about Boro boss Aitor Karanka being able to phone Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho – the Special One – for advice.
She said: “Alex was asked about the Special One and how Karanka had Mourinho on the other end of the phone if he needed it.
“Alex said he could always phone me if he was stuck. He texted me and told me to look out for the article.
“I don’t mind the comparison because I’m a big fan of Mourinho. But I have to say that I’m not that much help to him.
“He won’t even tell me what his starting 11 is. If I ask, he says I should just wait and see who trots out of the tunnel.”
Anne-Marie dug out the family album for the Daily Record as she recalled the best day of her life.
She said: “I thought that Alex taking Hamilton Accies into the Scottish Premier last year was the best day of my life after the play-off against Hibs but the Wembley experience was even better.
“It’s not really sunk in yet that Alex will be leading a team to face Chelsea, Man United and Arsenal but he’ll be determined to beat them. It will be really hard but he won’t be afraid.”
Anne-Marie said she had been treated like a family member by TV cook Delia and city since her boy took the reins.
She said: “In the five months he has been at Norwich, it has been a thrill from start to finish and we have really been made to feel part of the family by Delia Smith.
“Norwich have been like Hamilton in that respect.
“I have been up and down the road watching the games, home and away, and it has been worth every mile and every minute of it.”
Anne-Marie, 57, was flown down to London by Norwich and put up in posh hotels before and after the game, which she watched from Wembley’s royal box.
 

She said: “Norwich made a great start and everything went to plan.
“The &shy;atmosphere was fantastic and the celebrations were unlike anything we’d been involved in before.
“We went to the Hilton Hotel for the after-match party and the bar was literally drunk dry by 3.30am, although I’d gone to my bed a bit earlier. I hadn’t met Stephen Fry before but he was really excited about the result because he’s a committed Canaries fan too.
“The photos look a bit odd because he is about twice the size of me but it was great fun to meet him. He loves Alex and he was raving about the great job he’s done, which made me feel quite proud.
“Delia said he deserves a knighthood and even though she was joking she partly meant it.”
Anne-Marie also met former Labour shadow &shy;chancellor Ed Balls, who was gaining some consolation for losing his seat in the election at the final.
She said the biggest &shy;compliment to Alex came from Delia’s mum Ettie, 94.
Anne-Marie added: “Ettie gave me a hug and said, ‘Thank you for giving birth to that man.’”
Anne-Marie said the play-off win means Alex can commit 100 per cent to setting up a &shy;permanent home down south with accountant wife Kristine and kids Hayden, four, and Sienna, five.
She said: “The toughest thing for Alex was leaving the family at home while he got through the first few months.
“The job was so intense from the start and they didn’t want to pull Sienna out of St Pat’s Primary School mid-term, so they decided for a few months that he would focus on the job and they would get the family properly together in the summer, so Sienna could start school down there.
“He was on the phone and then the video calls, which were a big improvement, and I think the sacrifice they made for a few months was well justified.”
The success Alex has enjoyed also justified his decision to defy his parents and leave school early.
Anne-Marie said: “When Alex said he was leaving school in fifth year I was horrified as I wanted him to finish sixth year.
 
“But he was adamant he was going to sign for Dunfermline and there was nothing I could do about it, so that’s what he did. He lasted two weeks in sixth year then he was off. But I can’t complain because he’s made a bit of a success of it.”
His will to win was evident at an early age, when he refused to be beaten at anything – even by sister Frances, two years younger than him.
 

His mum said: “Frances was always the one who would join up for the clubs and activities but Alex would jump in eventually and then he’d not rest until he beat everyone at whatever it was.
“If you beat him at a computer game you’d better set aside half a day because he wouldn’t let you away until he beat you.
“But he was always a great kid and never gave us any trouble. He would hang around with an older crowd and play football with them but he was just so focused on things and he never drank or smoked.
“When he comes home, he still runs around with the same pals and he is the type who won’t change no matter what league he is in.”
Alex was known as a midfield enforcer, and continues the stereotype of the dour Scots manager.
His mum said: “I watch him on TV and everyone says that he never smiles but he’s not like that in person. He loves a laugh and he’s a great laddie.
“He is totally focused on his work. He is intense and quite fierce but that’s just a winning attitude thing that almost all the top managers have got.
“When he was younger his dad took him to football but I soon got that responsibility and I evolved into a bit of a fan.
 “By the time he was a  professional, it was me who was turning up rain or shine and I got really into it. Davie is a big fan too and we’re both Norwich fans now.” 
Davie, an engineer, said: “Half of Coatbridge have become Norwich fans because there is such a local pride in people like Alex when they do well.
“There is probably going to be more focus on him north of the Border because he is the only Scottish manager but that’s only because everyone is proud of him keeping up this proud tradition of Scottish managers.”
Alex was influenced by next-door neighbour Peter Hetherston, who played for Aberdeen and Falkirk and who recommended Alex for a start with Barnsley, who were managed by his old pal Dave “Harry” Bassett.
Peter, now 50, said: “There was a big age gap between us and he would have looked up to me but I could see there was something about Alex right away.
“He would kick the ball off the wall and drive my wife bonkers but he was always wanting to talk football. He was a great kid and we are still really close.
“He’s going to have a lot of money to spend on players but he won’t waste a penny. He’s careful with his money. He’ll be big enough for the job.”

