 THE widow of British aid worker David Haines, beheaded by ISIS last year, has criticised two freed hostages who claim he inspired their new children’s book. 
 Dragana Haines, 44, says she had no idea David’s death prompted French journalists Pierre Torres and Nicolas H&eacute;nin to write their book until reading about it in the press. 
She even confronted Torres in an emotional phone call and criticised him for not telling her about the publication – Papa H&eacute;risson Rentrera-t-il &agrave; la Maison? (Will Daddy Hedgehog Ever Come Home?)
She’s also upset the pair have failed to send a copy of the book to her daughter Athea, five.
Dragana said: “I read an article about the book when it was released in March.
“I spoke to Pierre and told him I was greatly disappointed that I had to find out about the book from the papers instead of from the two of them.
“I said it was great he had got the inspiration from David but I would’ve really appreciated if I had found out from him.
“He didn’t have anything to say because they were probably caught off guard that I knew about it in the first place.
“It would’ve been nice if my daughter received a copy but we haven’t received anything.”
 

Charity worker David, 44, from Perth, was posthumously named our Great Scot last year.
He was executed by ISIS militant Jihadi John in September after being taken hostage in Syria in March 2013 while working for relief agency Acted.
 Torres, 30, and H&eacute;nin, 39, say David was the inspiration behind the book which they claim was written on hidden scraps of paper while they were in captivity. 
The French journalists were kidnapped in Raqqa, Syria, in June 2013 and released 10 months later.
 The book tells the story of a hedgehog accidentally carried off in a picnic basket while trying to find food for his family who is then held captive by a little boy. He eventually manages to escape and goes through a series of adventures before finally being reunited with his loved ones. 
 The only mention of death is when he spots another hedgehog that’s been squashed on the road. 

Dragana added: “It would be nice to have a copy for Athea.
 “She wouldn’t understand at this point in time that the story is about her dad as I still haven’t told her the full story about what happened to David. 
“She really doesn’t need to know that he was abducted, taken hostage with God knows what happening to him for a year and a half.
“And, of course, she doesn’t know the tragic way his life ended. I just told her it was an accident and that he’s not alive any more.
 “She’s only five years old and I don’t want her to be frightened of the world knowing there are such monsters around. You can’t explain to her what happened.” 
 

Dragana, who lives in Sisak, central Croatia, says she is now trying to rebuild her life.
She said: “I want to make a normal life for my daughter.
“When you’re in a situation like this you have two choices.
“You can either sit down and cry your eyes out until you have no more tears and no more strength and you can just vanish or you can say, ‘I have a lot to live for’ and try to move on and make a decent life for my daughter.”
Both authors have said they would love to meet David’s family and give them the book.
 At its launch, H&eacute;nin said: “I would need to spend a bit of time with them before words  come out. 
“I would like to tell them, even if it sounds implausible, we spent some really good times with David.
“In the book, we made it clear one must be careful of judging who is good and who is evil.
“Be careful of the image that people project of each other.
“That was David’s point of view, too. He was very subtle psychologically.”
The French authors spent most of their captivity imprisoned alongside David and fellow aid worker Alan Henning and Americans James Foley, Steven Sotloff and Peter Kassig. All five men have since been murdered.
The pair also spent time with freelance journalist John Cantlie who remains in captivity.
 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

