 A SHAMED military policeman who brutally beat his wife and a lover was spared jail yesterday. 
 Decorated MoD police sergeant Andrew Richardson’s assault on his now estranged wife Gillian in 1999 only came to light after his lover Noreen Pacteau told police of her own 2011 ordeal. 
Richardson kicked Noreen, 43, six times in the stomach and punched Gillian in front of her own mother, blacking her eye.
Yesterday, 52-year-old Gillian reacted with fury after Richardson, 46, who guarded nuclear subs and missiles at Scottish military bases, walked free from Stirling Sheriff Court.
A jury had taken just half an hour to convict him of both assaults after a five-day trial last month.
Noreen, 43, had steeled herself to give evidence at the trial just days after her son – courier firm director Alexander Pacteau – appeared in court in Glasgow charged with murdering Irish student Karen Buckley.
She said that her former lover had caused her “horrendous fear” and joined Gillian in branding him as plausible and manipulative.
Sheriff Gillian Wade QC noted yesterday that Richardson, from Drymen, Stirlingshire, still did not accept his guilt.
But she said she would sentence him to 300 hours’ unpaid work “as a direct alternative to custody” because of his work record and lack of previous convictions.
Outside court, Gillian said angrily that she had been let down by the court.
She said: “It is totally unjust, soft-touch justice. He definitely should have been jailed.”
 

Gillian, who is still officially married to Richardson but is seeking a divorce, told the court he grabbed her by the throat at a flat in Easterhouse, Glasgow, pushed her against a wall on the landing and punched her in the face.
The assault was discovered by officers from the Police Scotland domestic abuse investigation unit who began to probe Richardson’s previous relationships after Noreen came to them.
Gillian, a furniture restorer, said the attack on her happened at a time when Richardson wanted to move from Glasgow to the country. He criticised her appearance and her work commitment – branding her “a fat lazy bastard”.
Noreen, a carer, also of Drymen, said Richardson was “cruel – just cruel”.
She said: “When he was nice, he was so lovely to me, but the fear was always there, the horrendous, horrendous fear. He either treated me like a princess or like s***e.
“He told me he’d get a gun and shoot me and the kids.”
The court heard that Richardson helped run security at RNAD Coulport in Argyll, the storage and loading facility for the UK’s stock of Trident nuclear warheads, and at Faslane, home to Britain’s four Vanguard-class nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarines.
Defence counsel Mark Moir said Richardson was considered a “trustworthy” officer, and won a divisional commander’s commendation and a good conduct medal during 25 years’ service.
He had now been required to resign from his post.
Moir said: “He was a temporary inspector and he might have been made a full inspector in due course. He has lost his future employment, and his pension rights have been affected.”
Sheriff Wade said she had taken into account the historic nature of the offences and Richardson’s previous good character.


