SUSAN BOYLE was warned about her behaviour by police after a family fall-out.
Susan, known affectionately as SuBo, turned up at relative’s door unannounced to discuss a family rift.
She then made calls and texts which were described as “abusive”.
A source close to the singer said: “She can get a bit over excited.”
Britain’s Got Talent star Susan was  spoken to by police but no formal action was taken.
Susan won worldwide fame after appearing on Britain’s Got Talent on ITV in 2009.
The source added: “Susan hadn’t heard from the relative in a while. So she went to her house, but was asked to leave.
“Then Susan was texting and calling as she was baffled why she hadn’t heard from her.
“The police visited Susan at her house to ask her to stop texting.
“They were sympathetic and nice to her, reminding her that she has got some lovely people in her life.”

When Susan appeared on the TV talent show she stunned judges and the audience with her version of I Dreamed a Dream.
A clip of her performance on You Tube has now been viewed 300million times.
Winning the show set Susan, from Bathgate, West Lothian, on the road to international stardom.
She had to have treatment in The Priory because she was unable to cope with the stress of becoming so famous so quickly.
The source added: “All poor Susan has wanted to do was try and mend things.

“But it’s like the old saying about no good turn goes unpunished.
“She isn’t as busy as she was during her USA tour and album work in November. And that gives her time to overthink things. She has Asperger’s and can sometimes overreact.
“Emotional situations cause upset and anxiety. But it’s nice to see that the police have decided not to take any further action. She doesn’t deserve that.”
When she finished second to Diversity in the 2009 series of BGT, her erratic behaviour led to her being admitted to The Priory.
At the time, producers at Talkback Thames said: “Following Saturday night’s show, Susan is exhausted and emotionally drained.”
Her stay in hospital attracted a get well message from the Prime Minister Gordon Brown, who contacted Simon Cowell and Piers Morgan to make sure she was okay.

