FAMILY and friends paid emotional tributes last night to a superfit jogger hit by a cyclist in a freak accident.
 Newlywed Peter Craig, 49, was struck when he was out running about a mile from his home in  Livingston on Saturday. 
At first, his injuries only appeared minor but he was later taken to hospital where it was found he had serious brain injuries.
It’s understood that Peter was declared brain dead but was being kept alive last night so his organs could be donated.
Last night, police were still trying to track down the cyclist involved in the accident.
It comes just four months after Peter and wife Mhairi tied the knot.
Peter’s daughter Maddie, 20, shared a picture of her dad on Facebook, writing: “I love you Dad. You will be missed, always.”
Fellow runners yesterday paid tributes to Peter.
Peter, who worked for Asda, was a member of the West Lothian Triathlon sports club, where he was a jog leader and committee member. He was also the organiser of the Livi Road Runners and had been training for the Highland Perthshire Marathon.
He raised hundreds of pounds for Oxfam and wrote a running blog in 2012.
West Lothian Triathlon said: “It is with great sadness that we announce the passing of Peter Craig. He was involved in a collision while training and suffered brain injuries.
“He had been a member of the club for two years and his enthusiasm for the club and for triathlon was infectious.
“He had recently become a committee member and had also taken the lead on the Wednesday night run sessions. He will be sadly missed. Our thoughts are with Mhairi and his family at this time.”
 

Club members also shared picture on social media.
Meanwhile, Jog Scotland said: “We’re terribly sad this morning to be hearing reports that Peter Craig, jog leader of jogscotland group Livi Road Runners, has passed away. Our hearts go out to all Peter’s family and friends.”
Peter’s employers Asda also paid tribute to him, saying: “Our hearts go to his family at this extremely tough time.”
They added that he had been “well-liked and close to his colleagues” who described him as “the fittest 49-year-old we know”.
Peter was hit by the bicycle at 9am on Saturday on the Loan Footpath, near its junction with Fergus Avenue.
Neither he nor the cyclist swapped details after the accident.
Peter was taken to St John’s Hospital, Livingston, then the Western General in Edinburgh as his condition worsened.
Police said: “We’re eager to trace the cyclist, described as a man in his early twenties, and any witnesses.”
They added they were not expected to bring charges against the cyclist as there is “no suggestion of any criminality”.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

