GEOFF Ellis surveys his new estate. It’s not really his – Anna Roberts’ name is still on the title deeds, but the man behind T in the Park looks at home inside Strathallan Castle.
“It’s beautiful,” he said, smiling at the view. “I could sit here all day.”
From a metal bench that has seen better days, we turn our backs on the castle, which now has a huge red T above the front door.
We gaze over a loch, woodland, meadows and hills. Ponies lollop around on the grass and sheep graze. Ellis points towards the sheep.
He asks: “See where they are? That is where the King Tut’s tent will be.”
All livestock will be long gone before they are replaced by party animals on July 10.
Since Perth and Kinross Council gave the festival the green light last week, work has started to transform the estate into a field of dreams – with campsites.
Ellis points beyond the treeline and paints a picture of how it will look.
The main arena is at one end of a long strip, with the Slam tent on the corner. The Tea Break and BBC Introducing stages are further up at the top of the field, with the King Tut’s tent nearest the castle.
All the wooded areas, including the one where the controversial ospreys are nesting, will be fenced off and protected.
There is an ornithologist on the staff of T in the Park promoters DF Concerts and he will be on duty all weekend protecting their welfare and seeing off any well-refreshed birdwatchers.
Camping will be spread out across the 1000-acre site, with several zones for the 70,000 people who pitch their tents over the weekend.
 One site is the field we are looking at, just below the castle with a small loch at the bottom of it. Another  overlooks the main stage. 
For the more discerning festival-goer, there is a field of upmarket tepees called Residence. There will also be a fleet of camper vans parked around the corner.
Geoff said: “Residence is for people who want a bit more comfort and there’s also Refresh for people who want some luxury and pampering.”
That, in festival speak, means a hot shower, a hairdryer and a clean towel.
In fact Ellis hopes that moving 14 miles up the road, from Balado to Strathallan, will refresh the whole festival.
He said: “What we will have is a festival people want to come back to. If you had said to me two years ago, at Balado, we needed to refresh T in the Park I would not have agreed. But we needed to and I think it’s a good thing.
“This site will be appreciated more by the older demographic. There is no upper age limit at T in the Park. I met a 65-year-old woman at the planning meeting. She had been last year to see what it was like. She told me she had a great time. She’s coming back this year and she’s bringing her grandchildren.”
The festival’s regulars are already looking forward to putting the new site through its paces.
Twenty Twitter competition winners got their first look at the new venue earlier this week and gave it a big thumbs up.
Carly Dalgleish, 21, from Greenock, said: “It looks lovely. The castle, the loch, it’s something different from last year.”
Anita Bainbridge, 43, is looking forward to her 11th consecutive year at T. She persuaded her husband Peter, 49, to join her last year and he’s now a convert.
Peter said: “I didn’t know what to expect, with all the different age groups. We camped on the Friday night. On Saturday it poured. But on Sunday we saw Sam Smith and Disclosure. The atmosphere was great.”
This year they are staying at Residence. Anita said: “We decided to treat ourselves. It’s our summer holiday. ”
Peter is less impressed: “We have paid &pound;1400 so we can charge our phones and she can plug in her straighteners.”
Unlike Balado, which DFC built up over 18 years, Strathallan is being set up from scratch. And it’s a more demanding job – Balado is a flat airfield while the estate has varied terrain.
Ellis said: “Coming here is a big expense. We are moving a festival for 85,000 people rather than 35,000 people and building it up from there. The financial pain is considerable.”
That translates as a seven-figure outlay.
Surveying work has started around the main stage area and contractors are sharing Geoff’s enthusiasm for T’s new home.
He said: “They think it’s the best festival site in the UK.
“I want this to be the permanent home for T in the Park.”

