THE national rail strike planned for next week will have a &quot;significant impact&quot; on both rail and roads north of the border, the Scottish Transport Minister has said.
Derek Mackay said the Scottish Government was &quot;working hard to try to mitigate that impact&quot;.
But he warned travellers that if the action goes ahead as planned &quot;there is no doubt it will have a significant impact on the roads and rail services&quot;.
Thousands of Network Rail (NR) workers could down tools for 24 hours from 5pm on Monday as a result of a row over pay.
Members of the Rail, Maritime and Transport (RMT) union and the Transport Salaried Staffs Association (TSSA) have rejected a four-year pay deal of &pound;500 followed by three years of rises in line with RPI inflation.
While talks at the conciliation service ACAS are continuing to take place Mr Mackay told BBC Radio Scotland's Good Morning Scotland programme that the &quot;industrial action is very likely to go ahead&quot;.
 


Because of the &quot;scale of it and the staff involved it will have a significant impact on rail services&quot;, he added.
ScotRail yesterday confirmed it will only be able to run a handful of services if the action proceeds, with the rail operator publishing details of a reduced timetable on its website.
ScotRail Alliance managing director Phil Verster said the firm was &quot;very disappointed&quot; to have to be making such a large number of cancellations.
But Mr Verster said that as it is a UK wide national strike &quot;there's very little we can do about it from the Scotland side&quot;.
The rail boss, who was also speaking on BBC Radio Scotland, said: &quot;Most important for us is to help our customers make decisions about Monday and Tuesday. Alternative travel is obviously a very high priority, and working from home, those type of options are unfortunately where we are.&quot;
About 470 signallers are expected to take part in the strike, he said, stressing their role is a &quot;very specialised skill and in order to run the railway safely we need those people in place&quot;.
 


He added that ScotRail had 23 contingency signallers who could &quot;step in for the 470 people that go on strike, so our capability to step in is very, very limited&quot;
RMT general secretary Mick Cash said: &quot;RMT is continuing to push for a negotiated settlement through the Acas talks and the union is available right the way through the weekend to keep that process going, if necessary.
&quot;In the meantime, our picketing arrangements are in place and the response coming back from our members is one of rock-solid support.
&quot;We would remind the public that we have been forced into this dispute through a wholly-unwarranted attack on safety-critical jobs, pay and working conditions that would seriously undermine the safety of passengers on our railways into the future.
&quot;RMT members are standing up for the principle of a properly staffed and resourced railway where safety comes first and where corners aren't cut to hit budget targets.&quot;

 Try our quick news quiz below: 

