 HORRIFIED golfers found a man with machete stab wounds in woodland beside a popular golf course, it was revealed today. 
 Two men raised the alarm after spotting the man in the bushes near the fourth hole at Carrick Knowe Golf Course in Edinburgh on Saturday morning. 
One of the players made the grim discovery after hitting a ball into the undergrowth beside the green at around 9.30am.
The injured 52-year-old, whose wounds are understood to have been self-inflicted, was bleeding heavily from his stomach and was described as &quot;very agitated&quot;.
He is understood to have told the men that he did not want medical help.
But the golfer who found him, believed to be a retired policeman, delivered first aid before the emergency services arrived.
A large police cordon was set up around the scene for several hours while officers carried out inquiries and a competition scheduled to be held that day was cancelled.
The course was reopened to golfers by lunchtime but police remained at the scene until mid-afternoon.
Police confirmed that they were not looking for any suspects in connection with the incident.
They did not comment on reports that the man had been seen walking up the fairway with a machete shortly before he was found.
 The man, who has not been named, is said to be making a good recovery at Edinburgh Royal Infirmary after undergoing emergency surgery. 
The 18-hole golf course is owned by city leisure provider Edinburgh Leisure, and two clubs - Carrick Knowe and Carrickvale - are based there.
A spokeswoman said it would not be appropriate to comment due to the police involvement.
The men who found the victim are understood to be members of the Carrick Knowe club.
No-one from the club was available to comment.
John Pow, secretary at Carrickvale Golf Club, said the incident had come as a shock to regulars.
He said: &quot;The police were there sharply. The course was closed for a short time.
&quot;An ambulance and a couple of police cars arrived to take the guy away. The police went
into the club and said he was having surgery immediately.&quot;
Local councillor Jeremy Balfour, who sits on the Edinburgh Leisure board and represents the Corstorphine and Murrayfield ward, said: &quot;I hope the man makes a full recovery and can get the help that he requires.&quot;
A police spokesman added: &quot;Police were called to Glendevon Park at around 9.45am on Saturday, May 9, following reports of concern for a person.
&quot;A 52-year-old man sustained a serious injury to his torso and was conveyed to the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary.
&quot;Officers are not looking to trace anyone in connection with this incident.&quot;

