 A CONMAN who modelled himself on the Wolf of Wall Street is facing jail after duping victims out of a fortune. 
Crooked businessman Matthew Farr tricked customers into handing over huge sums of cash.
He told victims all over Scotland his energy firm would install solar panels in their home.
The green energy solution allows punters to save cash on their energy bills by harnessing sun rays to power their homes.
But Farr disappeared once he got their deposit. Some of the people he targeted parted with their savings.
Now Farr – who also called himself Matthew Scott – has been told to expect a prison sentence after he was found guilty of the &pound;35,000 fraud.
 He’s awaiting sentence in Edinburgh’s Saughton jail. 
We can also reveal Farr, who was first exposed by the Sunday Mail in 2012, set up his Wolf International recruitment firm under his second identity while being probed by police.
 Farr, 29, modelled himself on Jordan Belfort, the high-flying fraudster played by Leonardo DiCaprio in the Wolf of Wall Street. Sources say he based the name of his latest firm on the blockbuster. 
One source said: “There’s nothing Farr wouldn’t say or do if he thought he’d get a sale.
“He’s totally ruthless and corrupt when it comes to making money.
“He considered getting people to hand over their life savings as a game.
“The damage he caused didn’t matter to him. He just saw it as another challenge.”
 Edinburgh Sheriff Court heard how Farr took advantage of householders who wanted to install the green energy  generators at their homes. 
He was the sole director of Solar Investment Solutions. Between March and September 2011 he conned people in Edinburgh, West Lothian, Ayrshire and Perthshire out of their cash.
Farr, of Telford, Shropshire, vanished and disconnected the firm’s freephone number. The company were dissolved in 2012.
Officers from the then Lothian and Borders Police investigated after being called by victims.
 

Farr, who has previous convictions, then started Wolf International – a London recruitment firm – under the name Matthew Scott in 2014.
 He’s described on their slick website as a “successful entrepreneur and passionate advocate for improving  outdated recruitment methods”. 
But staff at the firm say they’ve been left in the lurch, claiming they haven’t been paid. A source said: “Matthew has been living the high life.
“But people have left Wolf because he simply stopped paying wages.”
Farr was convicted by a jury of fraud on April 30 after a trial and remanded in custody.
His sentence was deferred until last Thursday after Sheriff Kenneth Maciver asked for background reports.
But sentence was again deferred after the court heard he failed to meet social workers who visited him in Saughton.
His solicitor Mark Harrower told the court his client has offered to repay his victims &pound;10,000. Farr will be sentenced on May 29.
The Sunday Mail’s Judge exposed Farr in February 2012.
We told how he pocketed &pound;10,000 before vanishing.
Furious customers then contacted trading standards to try to get their cash back.
They also started an internet campaign in a bid to track down Farr.
When that failed, police launched an investigation.
Farr had told householders they would get a huge discount on his product if they paid a cash deposit.
One victim handed over &pound;5370 after being targeted by Farr.
We managed to track him down to a pub and confronted him about claims he was a conman.
He told our reporter: “I don’t rip people off. I’ve got nothing to say.”
In 2009, his Paisley-based Better By Farr home improvements firm took deposits from 50 customers for windows, doors and conservatory sales - but Farr closed the business after four months.
 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

