ONLINE porn has triggered an epidemic of rapes against children under the age of 15.
New figures have revealed that almost one in three rape victims in Scotland is now under the age of 15. Politicans blame the soaring figures on the availability of degrading internet pornography.
Police Scotland’s data showed that the number of rapes has grown by 5 per cent in the last year. The shocking statistics come after police revealed the full scale of their investigations into historic child sex abuse.
It emerged last week that 37 Scottish VIPs are among more than 1,400 suspects across the UK identified by detectives as part of Operation Hydrant.
In 2014-15, 28 per cent of all rape victims were aged 15 and under at the time of the offence, up from 23 per cent the previous year.
Scottish Labour MSP Graeme Pearson, a former police chief, said: “I fear that the impact of porn, particularly online, could be contributing to the number of younger victims.
“Young men see this kind of material, online on television, and believe that what they are seeing is somehow “normal”.’
Scottish Tory justice spokesman Margaret Mitchell said: ‘This increase is deeply concerning. Given the reported increase in rapes involving the under-15s, it’s vitally important the SNP government continues to support measures such as those set out in the strategy which seek to deal with one of the most heinous crimes imaginable.’
In 2013-14, 39 per cent of child victims were raped by a family member. But in the first three quarters of 2014-15 this had risen to 43 per cent. The next ‘most prevalent relationship’ in terms of offender is an acquaintance ‘which consistently accounts for over 40 per cent of reports relating to children’.
Police Scotland said: “Overwhelmingly, therefore, child victims of rape are more than likely to be raped by someone who is wellknown to them. Almost a third of child victims of rape were raped by someone who was also aged 15 or under a the time of the offence.
“Around three quarters of recorded male victims of rape were aged 15 and under at the time of the offence.”
Police Scotland now has 58 separate investigations as part of the cross-Border Operation Hydrant, which targets child abusers.
Across the UK, 1,433 suspects have been identified and these include 261 ‘people of public prominence’.
Police Scotland Assistant Chief Constable Malcolm Graham said: ‘Children are particularly vulnerable to harm, and therefore one of our highest priorities has to be protecting them.
‘Prevention, intervention and investigation of child abuse in all its many forms have been our priorities, working in partnership with other agencies.’
 Try your hand at our news quiz 

