A HEAVY handed hospital parking officer has been blocking in illegal cars - with massive boulders.
The member of staff used a DIGGER to put the stones in front of the vehicles at Ayrshire’s Crosshouse Hospital.
Health chiefs have now criticised the over-eager member of staff after he blocked parked cars by putting rocks in front of cars.
The corporate support service (CSS) member of staff – the department that looks after car parking and NHS grounds – placed the large stones in front of a number of cars at Crosshouse Hospital.
Our sister paper the Kilmarnock Standard were sent pictures of the audacious act by a shocked visitor to the hospital.
“I couldn’t believe what I was seeing,” the visitor, who does not wish to be named, said. “I was shocked.

“It was morally wrong as far as I was concerned. They didn’t know the story of the people that had parked there.
“They may have had to park in a rush because of an emergency or because a family member was ill. I couldn’t believe it.”
Director for CSS John Wright confirmed the boulder parking incident with us, adding the stones were put in front of “inappropriately parked” cars.
He added: “NHS Ayrshire &amp; Arran does not condone such unacceptable behaviour and measures have already been taken to prevent this recurring in the future.”
Parking has been an ongoing problem at the hospital for a number of years.”
Mr Wright confirmed a new managed car parking scheme was being worked on by health chiefs and would be introduced in due course.
He added: “The plan is to have designated long and short stay car parks for patients, staff and visitors, as well as parking wardens to make sure cars are parked appropriately and to advise drivers of where spaces are available.
“This scheme will ensure patients and visitors are able to park closer to the main buildings, the car parks are less congested, and there are clearly designated car parks, based on length of stay, for staff and patients.”
Parking wardens are already in place at Crosshouse, monitoring car park usage and conducting an audit of cars parked inappropriately.
 Try your hand at our news quiz 

