THE Queen has given her royal seal of approval to the campaign for a living wage for the lowest paid.
She is looking for a cleaner for the Palace of Holyroodhouse, her official residence in Scotland.
The Living Wage campaign – which is backed by charities – is based on the amount an individual needs to earn to cover the basic costs of living.
The part-time post working in the state rooms and private apartments is paid at &pound;7.85 an hour – &pound;1.35 more than the national minimum wage.
The job, which was advertised on the Royal Family’s website, is for four hours a day at the 17th century mansion, in Edinburgh, working in the Master of the Household’s office.
It doesn’t come with accommodation but it has a non-contributory pension scheme.
Yesterday, a &shy;spokesman for the Queen – who is worth an estimated &pound;300million – confirmed: “The royal household uses the London, regional and Scottish living wage as &shy;benchmarks, among other data, to establish the appropriate market median rate for each post.
“For the post of daily cleaner at the Palace of Holyroodhouse, which is not housed, we are paying Scottish living wage (based on the full-time equivalent being 40 hours a week).”
The palace, at the end of the Royal Mile, attracts more than 250,000 visitors to its 14 historic state apartments and grounds.
The ad – for 20 hours a week, on &pound;8164 a year – said successful candidates will “enjoy working as part of a team, willing to help colleagues and undertake a range of activities to support the upkeep of the palace”.
It added: “By taking pride in your work, and with good attention to detail, you will provide excellent service in all that you do.
“With a pro-active approach to work, you will be able to prioritise and manage a busy workload.
“From preparing rooms to &shy;cleaning upholstery and linen, you will help to maintain the upkeep of this unique environment.
“You will also gain experience in the preparation of rooms for a range of different purposes and events, and help support the wider team in the day-to-day running of the Palace of Holyroodhouse.”
The living wage has received widespread support, with most political leaders backing it in principle, although not making it statutory.
The national minimum wage is set by the business secretary each year on the advice of the Low Pay Commission. It is enforced by HM Revenue and Customs.
The living wage is set at &pound;9.15 an hour in London and &pound;7.85 an hour in the rest of the UK.
The basic idea is that these are the minimum pay rates needed to let workers lead a decent life.
Yesterday, the Living Wage Foundation welcomed the Queen’s support, adding: “We very much welcome the fact they are following the rates.
 “We encourage businesses that can to accredit because that has the potential to extend the wage  guarantee to both directly employed staff and third-party contractors. 
 “In this case, they are employing their cleaner in-house but in lots of other organisations catering  and cleaning staff are often sub-contracted.” 

