
THE WIFE of Dundee FC star, Jim McAlister, has waded into the ‘bitegate’ storm with an online rant at his alleged attacker.
Kayleigh McAlister tweeted her disgust after photos and video appeared to show Dundee Utd striker, Nadir Ciftci, biting her fella in the right knee.
Pretty Kayleigh - who is expecting the couple’s first baby in July - said the ugly looking incident in Sunday’s derby match at Tannadice could have triggered an early birth.
She wrote: “For clarity I would never normally comment on incidents during a match but this is completely unacceptable behaviour.
 

 
 
“It was Cifci. No wonder Jim was raging he was bitten!! No place for that in football, absolutely vile.”
And then alongside the hashtags #bloodpressure and #screamingatthetv, Kayleigh said: “Christ I’m going to go into early labour here” before defending her 29-year-old husband adding: “Must be something in it. Would never react like that. Usually a calm character.”
Dundee United said they were “fully supportive” of Ciftci, who scored twice in Sunday’s 3-0 win and accused Dundee players of “quite severe physical and totally unacceptable verbal provocation” towards their player.
 

The Turkish born player is now facing a Scottish Football Association inquiry after the incident that happened towards the end of the final game of the season.
 
As well as photographs, a Scottish Professional Football League video - entitled “Tempers flare in tetchy Dundee derby” - shows McAlister pointing to his leg and shouting to referee Bobby Madden that he had been bitten.
Ciftci could also face an exceptional misconduct charge from SFA compliance officer Tony McGlennan, who will collect evidence from Madden, as well as Ciftci and his club.
A United spokesman said: “The club has interviewed Nadir today as the accusation levelled against him is very serious.
 

“The player is both surprised and upset by the accusation and, on discussing the matter in detail, it is clear to us that the player has not been involved in any such incident.
“In fact, we commend Nadir for his tolerance on the field given some quite severe physical and totally unacceptable verbal provocation.”
Ciftci has received 11 bookings and one red card this season, but has escaped punishment twice after being cited by McGlennan.
The former Portsmouth player successfully challenged bans for allegedly striking Inverness Caledonian Thistle defender Gary Warren with his arm and for kicking Celtic skipper Scott Brown in the head.
Both charges were found not proven by an SFA-appointed judicial panel.
 Try your hand at our sports quiz 

