 SCHOOL friends of a tragic teenager will have memories of their lost pal in their minds when they take on a running challenge this weekend. 
 Millie McLean was only 16 when she died of an extremely rare form of cancer . 
Her friends are taking part in the Edinburgh Marathon Running Festival event to remember the schoolgirl and raise funds for Macmillan Cancer Support.
Olivia Arnot, 17, who was classmates with Millie at Craigmount High in the capital, said: “It’s a great charity to raise money for and it’s great to keep her memory alive. Millie wouldn’t want us to do it for her – she’d want us to do it for other people, for the charity, because she wanted to help others.
“We’re helping others in her memory. I’d like to think her memory will keep us going the 10k distance.”
Olivia and pal Rosina Barton remember Millie as a popular, bubbly and friendly girl. They still talk about their friend and how she made them smile.
Millie first felt unwell in April 2013 but doctors didn’t initially think her pain and fatigue were cause for serious concern.
Despite the pain, she insisted on sitting her Standard Grade exams, even though she was in and out of hospital for tests.
 

 
That June, she completed a two-day hike across the Pentland Hills for her Duke of Edinburgh Award. But shortly afterwards, doctors diagnosed alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma. Thc cancer affects less that one child in a million.
Millie was just hours away from kidney failure. She was rushed to hospital for life-saving dialysis and emergency chemotherapy.
Her condition improved and she went back to school while continuing treatment. Millie started studying for her Highers. She was determined to be a teacher and even fitted in work experience at a local school.
Last July, she fell ill again. But she kept on smiling and shielded from her friends just how gravely sick she was. She died in October.
Olivia said: “Millie was an asset to the class. She was really bubbly and would never say a bad thing about anyone.
“She was so kind. She was so funny and so friendly.
“We weren’t aware how severely ill she was. We thought she’d get through it again like the first time.
 

“It was a big shock when she died. She never talked about being ill. She never wanted to be the centre of attention.
“She was looking forward to the school prom and looking to the future.
“We were very conscious at the prom that she wasn’t there with us. We still talk about her – she’s not been forgotten.”
Rosina, 17, added: “Millie’s laugh could be heard for miles. I remember the first time she found out she had cancer. I was sitting in a car and she texted to tell us.
“You hear one in three people will get cancer but you never expect it to be someone you know. It was such a shock.
“She’d been ill for a while and nobody knew what it was.
“She did a whole Duke of Edinburgh expedition with stomach pains and we didn’t realise the extent of what it was. She didn’t want to talk about her illness. She was always so positive about the future.
“The last time I saw her with Olivia was a couple of weeks before she passed away. I think she knew she was really unwell, but she never let on to us.
“You could tell she was tired but she was still as bubbly as ever and making jokes.
 
“She was the usual Millie as she didn’t want to upset us.
 

“When we were younger, we went to different groups together, such as the Guides, and our groups were always keen to raise money for whatever cause we could.
“Millie was always keen to raise money. So doing something to fundraise for such a good charity in Millie’s memory is fitting.”
 
Seeing what Millie and her family went through as she battled cancer was an eye-opener for her friends. They saw how charities played an important role in helping and supporting the family, so they decided to raise money to help others.
Millie was devoted to her mum Susan, 50, dad Michael, 47, and brothers Roddy, 15 and Alexander, 10.
She loved good food and enjoyed cooking and baking. The day she found out she only had a few days to live, Millie made sure her family phoned a restaurant to book a table for them all to have dinner.
Susan, of Corstorphine, said: “She was determined to have fun right up to the end.
“We’re all very grateful for the time we had with Millie and she will stay with us forever. She’s made us the people we are now.
 

“It was devastating for all her family and friends.”
Susan is comforted to hear Millie’s friends are fundraising in her memory.
 
She added: “She had a happy life.
“She did have lovely friends and she did find them very supportive. She was a very loyal friend.
“It’s nice to know they’re all doing so well.
“If she’d been alive, she would have been surrounded by all of them.”


