WHETHER you’ve joined a gym then never gone back or signed up for a subscription for a magazine you no longer read, you could be wasting a fortune.
Scots are losing on average &pound;150 a year on unused subscriptions and spending &pound;324million on things they don’t want.
A study reveals many of us aren’t checking our bank statements and forget about cash that is going on items or services we don’t use.
Women are slightly more forgetful than men – with 48 per cent paying for a service they are not using compared with 36 per cent of men.
Some are even continuing to pay out for ex-partners. Around five per cent are still forking out for a magazine subscription they took out for an ex, according to new research from topcashback.co.uk.
The survey reveals 44 per cent of Scots have continued to pay for at least one subscription they don’t use.
They could be shelling out for mobile web access, faster online delivery services, TV viewing deals, credit reports and healthy food boxes. Some sign up for a free trial then forget to cancel when the fees kick in.
About 28 per cent of Scots have continued to pay for a subscription without realising the cost has gone up.
The most common is a gym membership, with 55 per cent still paying even though they are not going. About 29 per cent pay for credit reports they don’t use, 21 per cent have magazine and newspaper subscriptions, 14 per cent use product delivery services and 14 per cent pay food box subs.
More than a quarter of Scots have continued to pay for a subscription they rarely used for at least four months, while 17 per cent kept on paying for more than a year.

Around 42 per cent admitted to signing up for a free subscription and forgetting to cancel before they were charged, with a further 26 per cent admitting they forgot to cancel a subscription after setting a calendar reminder.
Natasha Rachel Smith, consumer affairs editor for topcashback, said: “Our research highlights that as more and more services become available to us, the costs are going unnoticed in our bank accounts.
“However, whether it’s an often-used subscription, or a newbie, it’s important to review any subscription fee each month and ask: ‘Do I still use this service? Has the cost increased? Can I still afford it?’
“When it comes to initially free subscriptions – especially those in which you have to enter bank account details – it’s worth setting calendar reminders or putting a note on your fridge door well within the free trial period to ensure there’s plenty of time to review the service and cancel if necessary.
Smith said: “Taking advantage of sign-up discounts and cashback offers help consumers save on subscription service fees so they are worth doing – provided you stay vigilant.”
Daily Record money doctor Fergus Muirhead isn’t surprised by the survey findings. He said: “The majority of people are lax when it comes to checking bank statements against spending. Many people start the New Year with good intentions of getting a gym membership then hardly get their trainers on.”
He added: “People pay for things they’re not using, forget easily and don’t check things regularly.
“They also continue to pay for things for ex-partners while others pay subscriptions without realising the cost has gone up. At the end of 12 months, they’ll have auto renew on a subscription and won’t realise there might be another company offering the same benefit at a better cost. People need to set themselves reminders of all these policies and see what’s available at the end of that 12 months.”
Fergus, who manages website www.moneysucks.net, says online banking can help people keep on top of their finances, making it easier to cancel unnecessary payments. but checking statements is key.
For advice, go to www.moneysucks.net or www.topcashback.co.uk

