A REPLICA royal railway carriage officially opened by the Prince of Wales has been saved from a serious fire in a museum in a former station.
 Emergency services were called to the Old Royal Station in Ballater, Aberdeenshire, at about 2am today. 
The station, once used by members of the Royal Family, adjoins a restaurant which was destroyed by the blaze.
Firefighters, however, managed to save part of the museum which housed the carriage.
Charles and the Duchess of Cornwall visited the museum in 2008 to officially open the reproduction Victorian railway carriage, an exact replica of the one used by Queen Victoria in 1869 to travel between Windsor and Ballater.
At the height of the incident, about 50 firefighters with five fire engines and five special appliances were at the scene in Station Square.
 Scottish Fire and Rescue Service (SFRS) group manager John Morgan said: &quot;The crews worked exceptionally hard in arduous, dangerous conditions and managed to save the carriage. 
&quot;When firefighters arrived they were faced with a well-developed fire which was affecting the building roof space.
&quot;Our main aim was to stop the fire spreading to adjacent properties, which we were able to do.
&quot;Although the restaurant has largely been destroyed, we were able to save a good bit of the museum.&quot;
The SFRS said 75% of the building had been badly affected by the blaze.
Crews had the fire under control by 5.20am but will remain at the scene to dampen the area down and are checking for any remaining hot spots using thermal imaging cameras.
Inquiries into the cause of the fire are continuing. There were no reports of any injuries.
 David Rout, SFRS local senior officer for Aberdeenshire and Moray , said: &quot;We are acutely aware of the cultural and historic importance this iconic building has, not only for the local community but wider audience of the many visitors to the area. 
&quot;Our local crews are an integral part of the community and responded without delay to what was an already well-developed fire and fought extremely hard in a very challenging environment to extinguish the fire.
&quot;Their local knowledge allowed for a clearly identified plan to put in place firefighting and salvage tactics, and I'm pleased to say they managed to save the royal carriage and other parts of the museum.&quot;
During his visit in 2008, Charles reminisced about childhood journeys to Ballater, which is near Balmoral Castle.
He said: &quot;I have incredibly special memories of arriving and departing from here as a child. It is wonderful to see it brought back to life.
&quot;I hope it will make an enormous difference to Ballater and this part of Scotland in terms of its attraction.&quot;
According to the VisitScotland website, the restored Victorian railway station contains displays on the 100-year history of royal use and features the royal waiting room built for Queen Victoria.
Ballater originally became known as the nearest settlement to Balmoral Castle, which lies eight miles (13km) along the River Dee to the west.
The Deeside Railway brought the railway to Ballater in 1866 when it built a station there.
It was regularly used by royalty visiting the area and other guests, and it is thought many of Europe's royals passed through Ballater railway station in the 19th century.
A spokesman for VisitScotland, which has an information centre in the building, said: &quot;We are currently assessing the damage and will review our service once the picture is clearer.
&quot;It is terrible that this beautiful old building has been destroyed but we are thankful that no-one has been hurt.&quot;
Clarence House said Charles had been informed about the blaze.

