A GLASGOW councillor left his colleagues staggered yesterday when he stood up in the chamber and told them he had used prostitutes.
Phil Greene, 70, made the admission at a full council meeting.
 And he later told the Record he believed he had been “abused” by the men who encouraged him  to pay for sex when he was a “wee boy” in the Royal Navy. 
Greene, who represents the city’s Springburn district for the SNP, spoke out during a debate on prostitution.
A council source said: “There was a discussion about adopting a zero tolerance approach to prostitutes and the men who use them.
“Out of the blue, Greene started taking about how he enjoyed the company of prostitutes when he was a young man.
“He started by saying, ‘I haven’t cleared this with my group leader.’
“He described how he went about procuring women for workmates and said he spent time for three or four months with a Brazilian woman he knew was a prostitute.
“I’ve never heard anything like it. It was unbelievable.”
Greene spoke to support a motion by Labour’s James Coleman calling for tougher action against prostitution.
He told us later: “I didn’t think it would be a big issue. It was when I was a wee boy.
“I stood up in the full knowledge that it was a public forum – and that I’m a happily married man of 45 years with children and grandchildren. I thought there needed to be a different edge to the discussion.
“It was female councillor after female councillor telling about the abuse of women, equal rights and the Swedish system. The men were not speaking up, so I did.
“I said there was another type of victimhood.
“When I went to sea at 14, there was tremendous social pressure on you to go with a prostitute when you went ashore. All the guys would make sure you did.”
Greene said he did the same to young recruits when he was older and added: “I’m sure it still goes on today to some extent.
“It was only years later I realised I was being abused – by all these other men.
“I said it to shed light on an important issue. It’s not a simple, clear-cut thing. It’s complex.”
Greene has been an SNP member for 40 years and a councillor since 2007.
He sits on council committees including children and families policy development, the Safe Glasgow Group and social care policy development. He also holds the title of Bailie, which means he reprepsents the Lord Provost’s office on civic occasion.
SNP group leader Susan Aitken was not available for comment.
Coleman’s motion was passed. It calls for sex workers to be helped out of prostitution and urges tough action against punters and pimps.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

