THE cost of housing Scotland’s 11 longest-serving jail inmates has topped &pound;10million.
The cons have been held in the prison system for more than a quarter of a century.
The group – which includes multiple killers Robert Mone, Angus Sinclair and Gordon Livingstone – were among the 6329 convicted inmates in Scotland’s 15 jails as of last week.
Official figures reveal that, at today’s prices, the cost of housing the 11 men for their prison life has so far come to &pound;10,461,000.
The number of inmates serving sentences of up to 30 years or more is to increase after the introduction of minimum tariffs.
 But at the other end of the scale, the numbers of those held in young offenders’ institutions are decreasing – with prison sources revealing one wing at Polmont Young Offenders’ Institution is  almost empty as numbers fall. 
Figures obtained by the Sunday Mail on the prison population at large show the age of convicted prisoners ranges from a handful aged 16 to two aged 86.
The most common age for a prisoner is 27, with 266 inmates of this age in jail.
A total of 11 men have been inside Scots jails since 1990 or earlier. The longest-serving inmates include triple killer Livingstone, 61, who stabbed his parents and girlfriend to death in 1987.
He has served 28 years since the murders in Blairdardie and Anniesland, Glasgow.
He lived with his parents’ bodies for eight days before choking his girlfriend to death.
He was given a minimum period of 15 years before being eligible for parole but has served 28 years.
The longest-serving prisoner convicted in Scotland is Robert Mone, who was sent to prison in 1977 for his part in a breakout at Carstairs State Hospital.
Mone and accomplice Thomas McCulloch – freed from jail in 2013 – killed a patient, nurse and police officer before being apprehended.
Mone had been sent to Carstairs in 1967 for taking a pregnant school teacher and her class hostage for more than an hour before shooting the teacher dead and raping one of the pupils. At today’s prices of around &pound;33,000 a year, it has cost around &pound;1.25million to incarcerate Mone.
Another of the longest-serving group is serial killer Sinclair, 69, convicted last year of the 1977 World’s End murders.
But he has been in prison since 1982 when he was jailed for the rapes and indecent assaults of 11 boys and girls.
He had been jailed for culpable homicide for the sexually motivated killing of seven-year-old Catherine Greenhill in Glasgow in 1961 and served six years.
In 2001, he was retrospectively found guilty of raping, strangling and stabbing 17-year-old Mary Gallacher in 1978 and was given a second life sentence.
Sinclair got a third life term last year for raping and murdering Christine Eadie and Helen Scott, both 17, after abducting them from Edinburgh’s World’s End pub.
 

He was given a 37-year minimum tariff, the longest imposed by a Scottish court, but is appealing the conviction for the murders of Christine and Helen.
The total cost of keeping Sinclair in prison is now in excess of &pound;1million at today’s prices.
It’s understood a small number of other prisoners have also been inside since the 1980s, having served part of their sentences in England.
A prison source said: “The number of very long servers is likely to increase due to a number of people being given significant punishment-part tariffs in recent years.
“Prior to the introduction of the minimum tariff, life prisoners were probably being considered for parole after around 12 years on average.
“That is around 16 years now, although there are several cases where the minimum term is at 30 years or more.”
Labour justice spokesman Hugh Henry MSP said: “I think there is an issue about the prison population at the lower end of the scale and the question of whether we should be sending as many people to prison.
“There is also a question of whether enough is being done to try to ensure these prisoners are being properly rehabilitated.”
The Scottish Prison Service said the introduction of minimum tariffs means “quite a number of individuals in prison are likely to serve at least 30 years before being considered for parole”.
 A spokesman added: “The last seven or eight years have seen a  significant reduction in the number of young offenders serving sentences in Scottish prisons. 
“That number has reduced by almost a third.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

