 WHEN David Gillanders’s father-in-law gave him a couple of old glass photos , it ignited a passion. 
David, one of Scotland’s most respected photo&shy;graphers, was seduced by the ethereal quality of the images and their beauty as objects.
Now he is part of an &shy;international movement to restore the wet plate &shy;collodion process – the oldest form of photo&shy;graphy in the world.
 He plans to tour &shy;Scotland pulling a mini-darkroom behind his bike to capture and produce portraits for the public. They will be given the small plate in a box within the hour. 

 David, whose photo&shy;journalism has won World Press and Unicef awards, said historical &shy;processes are on the rise. 
He said: “I think that anyone who takes on photography with any level of seriousness, in a digital form, will at some point feel unfulfilled.
“Making a print in the&shy; darkroom is a very different thing. Everyone is used to looking at photographs on a screen now but to actually get a beautiful image on fibre paper that is signed by the person who has printed it is a wonderful thing.”
The antique wet plate process is even more tactile than film.
It was introduced in 1851 by Frederick Scott Archer and continued until around 1880 when dry gelatin prints came into &shy;widespread use.
David had grown jaded about the digital process. He said: “I am not opposed to it but when it was introduced, it was like leaving my baby behind. I loved shooting film and processing.”
 

He was given two glass plates by his father-in-law, who dabbles in antiques, and David fell in love with the photos. When he researched the method, he found there was a whole movement of artists who wanted to preserve it.
The images have a haunted spirituality and grace and it is the thumbprint of the photo&shy;grapher which is the signature.
He said: “The imperfections make each one unique. &shy;Sometimes they work for you and sometimes against you.”
David, who lives with wife Kirsty and sons Cameron Jack and Brodie Mac, has used the method to capture a variety of places and faces, some of which are pictured here.

