HIS legacy was little more than a novel footnote in local history, the answer to a pub quiz question in the boozers of a small pocket of Fife.
 But now fallen soldier Peter  Johnstone is to be celebrated with a permanent memorial to his life as both a remarkable footballer and World War I hero. 
A committee of Fife football fans are to realise their long-held ambitions to mark the life and death of the Cowdenbeath-born miner.
A fund-raising campaign to build a commemorative garden to the soldier has succeeded, generating &pound;11,000 for the construction of memorial bust to be unveiled today.
 Now Peter’s fans and family are hoping his former club, Celtic , will also create a monument to their forgotten star and others who lost their lives in the bloodiest war. 
Today’s unveiling marks an important milestone for Peter’s descendants, who’ve long wished for their forefather to have his heroic tale officially recognised.
Grandson Jim Frew, 72, launched a family campaign, lobbying  officials at Celtic to erect a  permanent memorial to Peter.
Jim said: “We’ve had a verbal offer from the club to have a memorial inside the tunnel at Parkhead but we rejected that idea. Peter never hid on the football park and he never hid on the battlefield when he went to war either. That cost him his life. I didn’t want a memorial in the tunnel, I wanted it at the front of the building where it should be.
“To have this memorial in  Glencraig is fantastic.”
Born the year the club were founded, 1887 – a year before their first game – Peter went on to play 223 times in the Hoops, winning six league titles in a row under legendary manager Willie Maley after signing in 1908 from junior outfit Glencraig Celtic.
Despite being under 5ft9in, he was known as “Big Peter” because of his reputation for standing up to no-nonsense manager Maley.
 

Jim, who co-founded the Muirhead Peter Johnstone CSC, said: “Maley wasn’t happy when he signed up. And he was distraught when he died.”
The courageous utility player netted 19 times during his Parkhead career, playing forward, midfield and defence and became an idol to Hoops fans before war broke out.
Having returned to the mines of Fife to aid the war effort, the married father-of-two signed up for military service in 1916, serving in action for both the Argyll and  Sutherland Highlander and the Seaforth Highlanders. Tragically, he was one of thousands of military men to lose their lives in the Battle of Arras, France.
His body lies in an unknown grave and his name features among many on the Arras Memorial in the Faubourg d’Amiens Cemetery.
Now a modest marker of his life will stand in a small corner of a field in Glencraig, near the neighbourhood where he made his name before he changed his football boots for trench boots.
Jim said: “My grandfather was 29 when he was killed. There are various theories as to what happened. My mother told me he wouldn’t let the younger soldiers put their heads up over the trenches looking for Germans, and he was killed by a sniper’s bullet. Another story is that he was killed rescuing a wounded colleague.
“The most likely story is he was killed by a shell.”
The campaign for the Fife tribute was instigated by fans forming the Peter Johnstone Memorial Group.
Celtic supporter Mike Payne, 54, along with other fans, wants Peter’s contributions to be officially  recognised.
He said: “It has been a quiz  question in pubs here for years – name the guy who played for Celtic who came from this area.
“Some knew his name but most didn’t know much more about him. So with the centenary of the commencement of World War I it seemed like the right time to do something to raise Peter’s profile.”
Working with war and football historian Ian McCallum, the group discovered Peter’s prolific past kicking a ball in Glasgow’s east end, where he and his young wife Isa settled in Dennistoun.
Unlike many footballers, prudent Peter used his pre-war relative wealth – &pound;5 a week – to invest not in a pub, but instead his newsagent shop in the Gallowgate.
Civil servant Mike said: “There’s very little information about Peter out there and some isn’t accurate. People even claimed he had a death wish and asked for a transfer to the front, which wasn’t true of course.
“Peter signed from Glencraig Celtic. In that team was a guy called George McLay, who was transferred from Glencraig to Raith Rovers, and Peter went to Celtic.
“Celtic’s last peacetime game was against Raith Rovers and George scored against Celtic.
“It’s a sad coincidence that he and Peter signed up to the army at the same time, went to France at the same time and died at the same time.”
The history books also reveal how Peter once made the overnight journey from his barracks in England to Glasgow to play for Celtic in their defeat of Rangers in the Glasgow Cup.
Mike said: “Glencraig was once a prosperous little town until the local pit closed and the town died. Now there’s virtually nothing left of it. So we’ve built it on the opening of the Glencraig Colliery where Peter worked.
“The garden and monument is a celebration of the fact that he’s a local guy made good, and also  celebrating the fact he was a great footballer and one of the most high-profile players to have died in the war.
“One of the most important reasons we thought he should have a memorial was because his family have no place to mark his life and there’s no mention at Celtic Park.”
Football legend and Provost of Fife Jim Leishman joined Peter’s family and the committee to break turf on the site and launch the development last month.
 This morning, it will be officially opened by Lisbon Lion John Clark. 
The site will also include the names of other local men who died in combat during the war.
It’s a poignant memorial to those who paid the ultimate sacrifice, even if it might cause bristling in some corners. A section of the Celtic support protested over players wearing commemorative Poppies on the club’s shirts, staging a demo which proved controversial.
 Mike said: “The thing about some Celtic fans being anti-British or  anti- British army , well, they really need to know their history. 
“We knew this would upset some Celtic supporters but at the same time you can’t deny history, and you certainly shouldn’t deny that there were players who played for Celtic who fought in the war.
“Some parts of the Celtic family haven’t got involved. If this upsets people it’s because they have their own slanted view of Celtic’s history.
“The club have made a significant donation to the memorial. But a memorial plaque in the tunnel for the players to see on the way out to the pitch feels a little bit like it’s hidden away. Other men who played for Celtic died too and it would be good to see more of them recognised.”
A spokesman for Celtic said: “We would like to applaud our supporters in Fife for the work they have done in commemorating the life, the achievements and the  ultimate sacrifice of the great  Peter Johnstone.
“His story is one which all Celtic supporters should know and his life, although too short, is one we should celebrate.
“The club were delighted to make a contribution to the work involved in creating the garden and we are pleased that Peter’s contribution will also be  recognised at Celtic Park.
“It is vital we pay these great figures the respect they deserve.”

