 BRITAIN'S youngest mum has decided to share her rape and pregnancy ordeal at the age of 11 in a tell-all book of the harowing child abuse she suffered. 
Tressa Middleton, became Scotland's youngest mum in 2006 after being raped by her then 16-year-old brother Jason.
Speaking about her ordeal on This Morning today, Tressa recalled her life of poverty and abuse and how her elder sibling could be “loving one minute and different the next”.
When he led her to a derelict building site near her West Lothian home, she was not prepared for the violent violation she was about to suffer.
Traumatised by the attack, Tressa felt unable to tell her mother about the changes she was noticing in her body a few months later.
She confided in a friend who bought Tressa a pregnancy test which confirmed her worst fears – her brother had impregnated her.
“Soon after I began noticing changes in my body,” Tressa told Amanda and Phil.
“I eventually did a pregnancy test and it came up I was pregnant.
“I was too scared to tell my mum, so I told my aunt and then ran away.
 

“Mum was furious but she calmed down eventually.”
But Tressa, who had spent a lot of time in care, did not dare tell her mum that Jason was the father of her unborn child.
Scared and alone, she claimed the baby was the result of a drunken liaison with a teenager.
Tressa remained quiet as her face was splashed on the covers on newspapers and magazines all over the country. She became a symbol for broken Britain, and after the birth, Tressa was forced to give her baby daughter up for adoption.
Aged 14, she finally revealed the truth to a friend and Jason was arrested.
After a trial in 2009, her brother Jason was jailed for four years after DNA tests proved he was her baby’s father.
Now aged 22, Tressa has finally summonsed the courage to tell her story.
The prologue to her daughter reads: “You are never far away from my thoughts”.
Tressa told the morning TV hosts that she hopes one day she will be able to meet her daughter.
“I know its going to be hard for her to find out her uncle is actually her dad. I hope she doesn't blame me for staying quiet,” Tressa said.
The brave mother ended her interview by encouraging anyone suffering abuse to come forward.
“If anything like this happened to you as a young girl you must speak out,” she said.

  


