Hospitals in Scotland are being left under pressure as the country’s nursing shortage reaches a critical stage.
Leading agency ScotNursing said it is able to fill only four out of every ten shifts where nurses are desperately needed and is calling on former nurses to consider coming back.
In March the Royal College of Nursing warned that, although the size of the NHS workforce in Scotland was rising, frontline nurses are increasingly reporting staffing shortages
ScotNursing told the BBC that not enough youngsters were drawn in to the profession.
ScotNursing chief executive Ann Rushforth said: “It takes four years to train a nurse. Sadly school leavers these days don’t seem to want to be nurses. They want to be veterinary nurses and supermodels.”
Mrs Rushforth urged nurses who are still registered but may have taken a break to have a family or to work in a care home to consider updating their clinical skills.
The company is calling on former nurses to consider doing occasional shifts.
The Scottish government said it had taken measures to support nurses, and increase the numbers of nurses and midwives working in the NHS.
In a survey last year only a quarter of nurses and midwives in Scotland agreed there enough staff in their department to be able to do their job properly, according to a national survey of NHS workers.
Mrs Rushforth said:” ”People can make a significant difference by doing just one shift a month,” she said.
“There are hundreds of vacancies we can’t fill but this work still has to be done by someone. People may not realise they’re not getting the support they should have.”
In September last year there were 58,000 nurses and midwives employed in the NHS in Scotland, compared to 55,000 in 2005.
Figures from the NHS statistics department, ISD, suggested an extra 429,000 people were seen as inpatients and outpatients over the same period.
This indicates there is only one extra nurse for every 143 attendances.
Director of RCN Scotland Theresa Fyffe said: “There is no doubt that there simply aren’t enough nurses to fill the gaps.
She said this was a result of growing patient demand, significant cuts to the number of nursing students recruited in 2011/12 and 2012/13 and high rates of retirement from the nursing workforce.
The Scottish Government recently announced &pound;450,000 funding for a return-to-practice scheme over the next three years.
 Try your hand at our news quiz 

