IT’S going to be the most moving and inspirational night of the year.
The 12th Daily Record Our Heroes awards, which are sponsored by Lidl, will bring together VIPs from sport, entertainment and politics to honour those who inspire us all.
Hosted by comedian Fred MacAulay, the Our Heroes awards will include entertainment from former X Factor singers Rebecca Ferguson and Nicholas McDonald.
The collection of brave and &shy;selfless Scots finalists is more &shy;incredible than ever – starting with some little angels.
The brave Little Heroes were given a day out to remember when they went on a shopping spree at &shy;Glasgow’s Buchanan Galleries  and climbed onboard Lidl’s Health Factor bus.
The youngsters got to pick toys from shops The Entertainer, Build-A-Bear and Lego Store, as well as clothes to wear from Next – for their big night tomorrow.
 Little Heroes 
 

 EILIDH DUNCAN, FROM CLACKMANNANSHIRE, ALLOA 
WITH her beaming smile and can-do attitude, little Eilidh is a born fighter.
After she fell critically ill at 10 weeks old, doctors diagnosed a rare condition that destroys the intestine.
Eilidh, three, survived against the odds. And despite chronic pain, growth problems and the burden of being hooked up to feeding tubes for 20 hours a day, she lives life to the full.
 ALYSSA McLEAN,  FROM TULLIBODY, CLACKMANNANSHIRE 
ALYSSA can’t feel pain – but rather than being a blessing, it means she’s constantly at risk of doing herself serious harm.
The beautiful little girl has caused herself devastating injuries, including biting off part of her tongue, ripping out stitches after having surgery and chewing her finger down to the bone.
The seven-year-old is one of just three children worldwide suffering from a dysfunction that causes complete loss of pain sensitivity.
 CALUM LAMBERT, FROM MURIESTON, WEST LOTHIAN 
FOR months, little Calum Lambert was ravaged by an illness so aggressive his body was unable to respond to treatment – prompting doctors to tell his parents he was unlikely to survive.
He was just four when he was diagnosed with rare and deadly condition aplastic anaemia, which kills bone marrow and red blood cells.
This meant the brave youngster had to endure more than 680 medical procedures in less than 12 months.
A global hunt was launched by the Anthony Nolan charity to find a matching donor.
 Sporting Heroes 
 MARIA LYLE FROM DUNBAR, EAST LOTHIAN 
 

AMAZING Maria had to use splints to walk as a two-year-old – but aged 15 she beat a field of adults to win the 100m and 200m at the European Paralympic Championships in Swansea.
She is now targeting  a gold medal at the Paralympic Games in Rio in 2016.
 GARY ANDERSON FROM EYEMOUTH, BERWICKSHIRE 
GARY was spurred on to win his first World Championship by the memory of his brother and father, who died within months of each other.
The Flying Scotsman, 44, lost his brother Stuart to a heart attack, aged just 35, in the autumn of 2011, then dad Gordon passed away the following spring.
He landed darts’ biggest prize when he beat Phil Taylor at Alexandra Palace in January.
 JAY BEATTY, FROM COUNTY ARMAGH 
 

LITTLE Celtic hero Jay won the Scottish Premier League’s Goal of the Month award – and captured the hearts of people across the globe.
The 11-year-old’s win was announced by his hero, ex-Parkhead striker Georgios Samaras, in a video message.
The Greek, who now plays in Saudi Arabia, delivered a touching personal message to the youngster.
Jay, who has Down’s syndrome, scored a penalty during half-time at Hamilton Accies.
 Emergency 
 SCOTLAND’S CHARITY AIR AMBULANCE 
THE dedicated crew of Scotland’s Charity Air Ambulance saved the life of  a teenager who was dragged underwater for more than  six minutes.
The Helmand 76 crew flew from their base in Perth to the River Tay near Murthly in Highland Perthshire after the 18-year-old got into difficulty while swimming with a friend.
He was pulled underneath the fast-flowing water  before stopping on a strip  of land which formed a  small island in the the river.
They carried out life-saving CPR and used a defibrillator to save the teen’s life.
 PC TONIANNE EWART 
 

BRAVE police officer Tonianne put her own life at risk to save a man who tried to jump from a multi-storey car park.
She was on duty in Glasgow when she received a call saying a man was about to jump from the top floor.
As she reached the man, he suddenly pushed himself off the ledge. With no consideration for her own safety, Tonianne, 26, grabbed the man’s clothing and bravely clung on until help arrived.
Thanks to her bravery and determination, the man was prevented from taking his  own life.
 STONEHAVEN FIRE AND RESCUE 
The team went beyond the call of duty when they delivered a baby girl.
Her mum had dialled  999 when she went into  labour while home alone –  but the ambulance crew  sent to the property in Stonehaven, Kincardineshire, found the door locked and called the fire brigade to force entry.
When the crew got inside, they discovered the woman was in the late stages of labour, and Gavin Strachan and Tim Hull helped to deliver her baby.
 Forces 
 CORPORAL WILLIAM SAVAGE, FROM PENICUIK, MIDLOTHIAN 
LYNDSEY Savage was eight months pregnant when her soldier husband was killed in Afghanistan.
William, 30, died with two comrades when a Taliban bomb blew up their vehicle in April 2013.
But her determination to stay strong for the baby boy she and William had longed for has helped her cope during her darkest hours.
Lyndsey, 29, makes sure two-year-old Connor knows about his hero daddy – nicknamed Sav.
 MICK McCONNELL and MEMPHIS, FROM ELGIN, MORAY 
 

WHEN Mick was blown up by a  bomb in Afghanistan, he thought  he would never be reunited with  the four-legged comrade who waited patiently by his side for help.
The 41-year-old’s left foot had to be amputated after he stepped on a boobytrap while on patrol with explosives sniffer dog Memphis.
Mick vowed to adopt the loyal springer spaniel who had dutifully served alongside him.
 AILSA CRAWFORD, FROM GLENROTHES, FIFE 
RAF air traffic controller Ailsa faced a daily onslaught of suicide bombers and heavy shelling in Iraq.
Her 22-year military career has taken her to bases around the world, including four months in Baghdad, dodging mortars and coming face to face with the reality of war.
Ailsa, 41, worked at the Baghdad military base and also faced the danger of mortar attacks sometimes getting through.

