A HORRIFIED mum-to-be called in police after someone tried to kill her beloved puppy with poisoned meat.
Penny Canning snatched a lump of beef which had been laced with rat poison from her dog Bailey’s mouth.
The bait – which was stuffed with killer pellets and nails – had been thrown into her garden.
The 23-year-old estate agent – who is seven months pregnant – rushed her bichon frise to a vet to have his stomach pumped. She posted images of the meat on a social media page for dog owners.
Penny said: “Be aware – people are leaving food with poison and nails in it.
“This was dropped over my back fence today. Someone intentionally tried to poison my bichon frise.
“This is a piece of meat covered in rat poison. Luckily I was vigilant watching him in the garden and managed to grab it from him.
“Been to the vets this morning – stomach pumped and bloods taken.
 

“He is fine but if I hadn’t been watching, I wouldn’t have been so lucky. Police now involved.”
And she warned other pet lovers: “Not sure if this is a personal attack or just a sicko walking about trying to poison innocent animals.”
Penny and her partner Joe McGinley, 25, of Howwood, Renfrewshire, spent an anxious couple of days waiting to see if Bailey was affected by the poison. The incident happened on April 23.
The pellets would have caused internal bleeding and an agonising death.
Almost 7000 pet lovers shared Penny’s warnings on Facebook. And there were hundreds of messages from well-wishers wanting to know if Bailey was okay.
 

Joe said: “Everyone has been really great – thanks for all the concern. Our dog is fine now.”
Penny’s mum Helen added: “It was a horrible thing to happen.”
Vet Neil McIntosh, of Abbey Vet Group, said: “It’s a particularly vile crime, something that’s not only fatal to the innocent animal but causes all kinds of psychological upset for the owners.
“If your pet has eaten anything you suspect has been contaminated by this type of poison, you must get to a vet as quickly as possible.”
Police Scotland said: “The dog was taken for emergency treatment following the incident and our inquiries are continuing.”

