HE survived being shot during the Korean war and went on to become one of the most successful and well-known football scouts ever to grace the beautiful game.
 Bobby Dinnie is synonymous with spotting and nurturing the talent of Kenny Dalglish, the Celtic, Liverpool and Scotland legend. 
 He has also worked alongside icons including Sir Alex Ferguson, John Greig, Bertie Auld, Gordon Strachan, Walter Smith and Jock Wallace. 
The Dinnie story is a remarkable one.
Aged 19, he had a brush with death after being shot in the neck while on foot patrol during the Korean War.
Unlike many of his colleagues, he survived to tell the tale of the horrific experiences on the front line in the 50s.
The teenager went on to become the man who turned Possil YMCA into a conveyor belt of footballing geniuses, producing some of Scotland’s most successful players – including King Kenny.
 He can count Arsenal, Aston Villa and Rangers among his former employers but Bobby is humble about the positions he has held and the players he has nurtured. 
In his book The Scout: The Bobby Dinnie Story, he said: “I’ve been blessed with the amount of people I’ve been associated with throughout my life.
“I’m also proud to say I’ve met three kings and a queen – Kenny Dalglish, George Best and Pele and, of course, Her Majesty The Queen when I received my MBE.
“Kenny was a wonderful footballer, even at a young age. I don’t think anyone was surprised he went on to become the incredible player who lit up our game.
“It was an enormous pleasure to see Kenny blossom into that unique talent.
“George Best was one of the best players ever to have pulled on a pair of football boots. He was also a very approachable guy, a gentleman and a true one-off.
“Pele is another legend and when I met him I couldn’t believe how warm and open he was. A real gent and it was an honour to share the same room as him. To be honoured with an MBE came as a bit of a shock but it was another great moment in my life that I will cherish forever.”
 

After decades on the touchline, working tirelessly to give youngsters their big break, he is taking a back seat, but Bobby will always harbour a love of the game.
Now 82, he is still a regular fixture at grass roots matches and admits he will never be fully able to blow the full-time whistle on his passion for football.
Bobby, from Parkhouse in Glasgow, said: “I’ve retired from scouting but I will never retire from football.
“I know when I see someone special and always trust my instincts. If he’s good I’ll take another look at him.
“It’s been a wonderful journey. I have done it until 82 years of age and you can’t do anything for that length of time unless you love it.
“You don’t do it for the glory but to give youngsters that first big break.”
Sir Alex Ferguson paid Bobby a big compliment in his book saying: “It is impossible not to have known of Bobby Dinnie if you have in any way been involved in boys’ club and youth football from the 1950s to the 1990s.
“I had many experiences of Bobby during his time with Possil YM, firstly as a young player with Drumchapel Amateurs and later when I was a fledgling manager with St Mirren.
“Bobby had the wonderful ability to spot young talent and nurture them to greater things and his most famous boy, Kenny Dalglish, was testimony to his ability.”
 Born into a humble family, he was a typical Glaswegian war child enjoying many a simple moment on the streets kicking anything that resembled a ball. It was there his love affair with the game grew and it wasn’t long before he formed his own football team called Bardowie Rovers. 
Bobby said: “Growing up in Possil we didn’t have much but that was how life was back then. Of all the games we played as youngsters, football was always my favourite. Bardowie Rovers were formed after the war so as you imagine we were extremely short on sports equipment. Our first kit was made of white shirts which my mother dyed yellow and when it rained the dye would trickle down our legs.
“We had so much fun with our little team and it set the tone for what was to become a great football life for me.”
 

Bobby was invited to try out for Possil YMCA and before long he was at the helm of the club where he would spend several decades.
During his tenure as manager he successfully attached the team to various professional clubs around the UK, with affiliations to established names such as Arsenal, Rangers, Sunderland and Aston Villa.
Such was his passion for Possil that when he asked his wife Betty if she would like to go to America on honeymoon he forgot to mention they would also be joined by 18 football players heading for a tournament.
He laughed: “It was worth the risk because we came back with a beautiful trophy.”
Bobby’s passion and outstanding contribution to Scottish sport is the reason he is a finalist in the Sporting Hero category at the Daily Record Our Heroes Awards.
He said: “It’s a real honour and one I never expected.
“A lot of people say to me that football is a dirty game and it can be but I had a great time at Possil, the likes of Bobby Russell, Robert Fleck and Tony Fitzpatrick trained there.
“I’m often asked who the best player I ever spotted was and it’s a question I can’t answer. We had so many talented players that I couldn’t single out one. Kenny was superb but we had so many talented guys. Bobby Russell was a fine player too.
“I’ve been fortunate to enjoy such an incredible career. For me, football was always more than a job.”
 The Scout: The Bobby Dinnie Story is available on Amazon. 
 Test your knowledge with our sports quiz: 

