 PEOPLE were amazed by the Daily Record poll earlier this week which showed support for the SNP had risen to more than 50 per cent of voters. 
 But why should anyone in Scotland not vote SNP under present circumstances? 
Scotland stands on the brink of unparalleled influence at Westminster. How close we are to this is reflected in the absolute panic of the London-based political parties.
 The Tories – in a disgraceful campaign which former PM Gordon Brown has described as “anti-  Scottish” – have attempted to demonise the SNP and also suggested that Scottish votes are invalid or less equal in the House of Commons. 
What bare-faced cheek from a party who have been picking the pockets of the people of Scotland, and that of working people everywhere, for generations.
Home Secretary Theresa May has even suggested a big group of SNP MPs would be the biggest crisis since the abdication of Edward VIII in 1936.
She seems to have forgotten World War II, the Suez Crisis and the illegal war in Iraq. Apparently they all pale into insignificance compared to the terrifying thought of a contingent of SNP MPs turning the green House of Commons benches tartan.
 Meanwhile, the Tory press have pressurised Ed Miliband into saying he rejects a formal deal with the SNP. 

 But are we supposed to believe a Labour leader would stand by and let the Tories take power because he won’t bend to the will of the people? He won’t do that because he and his party would never be forgiven or ever trusted again. 
This is Westminster hot air. The sort of thing political leaders huff and puff about before the votes are in. Once they are counted, it’s time to sit down and deal with the reality that democracy has presented.
 In a brilliant series of TV performances, Nicola Sturgeon has outlined how the SNP will use the clout the people give us: To aid the cause of progressive politics across the UK by achieving a move away from the ruinous austerity economics of further public spending cuts. 
We need to invest in the economy, not further depress the people or waste &pound;100billion on Trident nuclear weapons – to make sure the commitments and promises made to Scotland in the back end of 2014 are honoured in full.
So, can we achieve these objectives? You bet we can.
I spent four years running a minority government in Scotland, from 2007 to 2011. I experienced what needs to be done to govern. Above all, you have to accept the result delivered and compromise to secure effective government. Anything less is an affront to the people who elected you.
 

 
 Miliband should remember the simplest and purest word in the language – democracy. 
He should also remember that a Labour/SNP arrangement – which under Tory pressure south of the Border he is trying to turn his back on – is the most popular outcome among people in Scotland.
The country expects the old boys’ network at Westminster to be shaken up. And there is something we can all do to make Westminster wake up and smell the coffee – make the message from Scotland so clear and unambiguous that it can’t be disregarded and ignored.
I don’t know if it is possible for the SNP to win every seat in Scotland but we are challenging hard in them all.
So, now is the time and opportunity for everyone to play their part – north, south, east and west. Get on board and deliver a message so resounding we can never be taken for granted ever again.
 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

