THE SNP have scrapped their demand for Holyrood to be given control over abortion law in Scotland.
 Senior sources in Whitehall and the Scottish Government confirmed that Nicola Sturgeon has climbed down. 
The issue was left for intergovernment talks after it became a make-or-break debate in the Smith Commission into extra powers for Scotland in November.
 Labour threatened to walk out on the whole devolution deal over proposals by the Green Party and Lib Dems to devolve abortion law to Scotland. 
But now the talks have been quietly dropped.
Scottish Government sources said: “There have been no substantive discussions and there aren’t any discussions scheduled.”
 The UK law allows abortions until 24 weeks of pregnancy. There were fears that if Scotland set their own law – and lowered the time limit – women could cross to England for later-term abortions. 
 Late in the Smith Commission talks, Labour’s Greg McClymont called on Tory Home Office Minister Theresa May and Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg to press their delegates to drop the plan. 
Later, Lord Smith asked for the issue to be given “serious consideration”.
 And the then Lib Dem Scottish secretary Alistair Carmichael invited Holyrood to make an approach. 
John Swinney, who led the SNP in the Smith process, remained non-committal during the negotiations.
A senior SNP source said: “The SNP’s priorities for more powers were set out in our manifesto and are clear – employment policy, including the minimum wage, welfare, business taxes, national insurance and equality policy. We did not include abortion in these priorities.”
 A spokesman for the Scottish Greens said: “We’ll be seeking an update from both governments on how the Smith Commission recommendation will be implemented. 
 “The agreement stated that the parties were strongly of the view to recommend the devolution of abortion as it was regarded as an anomalous health reservation. And that a process should be established to consider the matter.” 
A Scottish Catholic Church spokesman said: “Our concern is with the process, as opposed to the parliament that legislates for it. We don’t have any sense that changing the legislature would alter the legal regime.”

