NICOLA Sturgeon's SNP has made sweeping gains across Scotland, with a dramatic collapse in support for Labour seeing shadow foreign secretary Douglas Alexander and Scottish leader Jim Murphy both losing their seats.
Nationalist Kirsten Oswald took the party from fourth to first to oust Mr Murphy in East Renfrewshire , ending his 18 year career as an MP.
With some constituencies showing swings to the SNP of more than 30 per cent, Mr Alexander, Labour's election campaign chief, was the first big scalp of the night for the nationalists .
Student Mhairi Black, 20, beat the former government minister in Paisley and Renfrewshire South, the seat he had held since 1997.
Don't miss a beat of tonight's election count - follow our live blog

In Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath, which had been the safest Labour seat in Scotland, the SNP easily overturned a majority of more than 23,000 to capture the constituency which had been held by former prime minister Gordon Brown, who did not stand again.
As an SNP landslide swept across the country, Labour candidate Kenny Selbie polled 17,654 votes, nearly 10,000 fewer than nationalist Roger Mullin, who picked up 27,628 votes for the SNP.
Shadow Scottish secretary Margaret Curran lost her Glasgow East to the nationalists, who appear to be on track to pick up all seven constituencies in the city.
Mr Murphy said it was an &quot;enormous&quot; moment for the SNP, but vowed that his party's fightback starts tomorrow.
He insisted: &quot;The fight goes on and our cause continues.
&quot;I know hundreds of thousands of Scots still believe in the progressive policies the Labour party stands for.
&quot;The Scottish Labour party has been around for more than a century. A hundred years from tonight we will still be around.
&quot;Scotland needs a strong Labour party and our fight back starts tomorrow morning.&quot;

Nicola Sturgeon declared her party's stunning Westminster success a &quot;historic watershed&quot; in Scottish politics.
Speaking from the Glasgow count at the city's Emirates Arena, Ms Sturgeon declared: &quot;The political firmament, the tectonic plates in Scottish politics have shifted.
&quot;What we are seeing is a historic watershed.
&quot;Whatever the government is that emerges at Westminster, they cannot ignore what has happened in Scotland.&quot;
The SNP triumphs included the return to Westminster of former leader Alex Salmond, who declared that the &quot;Scottish lion has roared&quot; as he was elected as the new MP for Gordon.
Mr Salmond, who captured the seat from the Liberal Democrats, told supporters: &quot;There is a swing under way in Scotland the likes of which has not been seen in recorded politics.
&quot;It is an extraordinary statement of intent from the people of Scotland.&quot;
Ms Sturgeon said she was &quot;delighted&quot; to see her former boss win the seat, adding: &quot;I never really doubted that Alex would be elected but obviously you don't take anything for granted.
&quot;Alex is just such an asset to the SNP and to Scotland and I know he will be a fantastic part of the team (at Westminster).
&quot;Alex and I have had a special relationship, we have worked together very closely for a quarter of a century, and I look forward to seeing him representing his constituents and making Scotland's voice heard back on the green benches at the House of Commons.&quot;

