MORE than 10,000 cases reported to prosecutors by police are dropped every year due to insufficient evidence, a Record investigation has found.
The huge number of failed cases has been blamed on a culture within Police Scotland to report more crimes in a bid to boost detection rates.
Rank and file officers claim they are encouraged to press charges, even when they know it’s unlikely the case will ever reach court.
One officer – a police constable with 11 years experience – told the Record that rank-and-file cops feel they are wasting their time.
Police Scotland hit back, claiming the number of dropped cases is down to “robust” investigations.
We found that in 2013/14 – the first year of Police Scotland – 10,734 cases were dropped by prosecutors due to insufficient evidence.
Out of 265,653 reports sent to the Crown by Police Scotland, 89,656 never made it to court – although most of these were settled by non-court disposals.
The Crown Office said: “In the period 2013/14, 63,432 cases of the 89,656 which did not proceed to court were dealt with by way of an alternative to prosecution.
“The other 26,224 cases were predominantly not proceeded with due to an insufficiency of evidence, were not a crime or were at the lowest end of the scale and it was deemed further action would be disproportionate.”
The previous year, more than 12,000 reports from the eight former Scots forces were dropped due to lack of evidence.
Yesterday, a Police Scotland officer claimed colleagues in Edinburgh are being pressured to report domestic incidents, despite knowing that they have little evidence to secure a conviction.
The insider said: “A domestic is defined as any incident between two people who are or have ever been in a relationship, whether that be the most minor of arguments or a violent crime. It also covers texts and Facebook messages.
“For example, we could have a couple who have been apart for 10 years but still live in the same town.
“One Saturday night they are both out, words are exchanged and she calls the police stating, ‘He called me a b**** and said I need sorting out. I took that to be a threat.’ In days gone by police would attend, give common sense advice, trace him, possibly warn him and that would be the end of it.
“Nowadays before the end of the shift cops are creating a domestic pack – that is all witness and police statements and a standard police report.
“The pack will be passed from shift to shift until the male is traced, detained and charged, if there is sufficient evidence.
“This pack is treated as a priority over any other incidents or inquiries and two officers will be tasked with tracing the male on each subsequent shift.”
 Last year, 2873 reports of domestic aggravated crime were dropped due to lack of evidence, according to stats released by the Crown. Other dropped cases involve allegations  of vandalism and theft. 
The PC added: “Senior officers seem to be paranoid about the ‘what ifs’ should the suspect be released. This is why so many of them are remanded in police custody for court the next day.
“If these perceived perpetrators who were held in police custody started to complain, then maybe Police Scotland would rethink their procedures with regard to minor domestic incidents.”
Chief Superintendent Barry McEwan, who oversees the force’s Domestic Abuse Taskforce, said: “Tackling domestic abuse in every form has been a key priority for Police Scotland since day one.
“Every one of our officers is intent on reducing the harm which comes from domestic abuse and the impact it has on victims, and their families.”
A police spokesman said: “Police Scotland investigates all crimes and offences robustly. Decisions about whether cases progress further lie with the Crown Office.”
The Crown Office said: “In 2013/14, 71 per cent of the cases not prosecuted in court were dealt with by alternatives which can include compensation orders and fixed penalties as well as warnings.
“This allows prosecutors to deal with cases quickly and effectively without the need for court proceedings.”
Scottish Labour’s justice spokesperson, Hugh Henry MSP said: “Chief Constable Stephen House has consistently claimed that there is no target culture in place at Police Scotland, but the testimony of serving officers contradicts this.
“It’s time for the Scottish Police Authority to prove their worth as a watchdog and conduct a proper investigation.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

