 A GANGLAND figure was mown down by a 4x4 and shot at point-blank range in a suspected tit-for-tat gun feud. 
 The 29-year-old victim was blasted by a rival as he lay on the ground after being hit by a Mitsubishi. 
 Yesterday, he was seriously ill in Glasgow Royal Infirmary . 
Police are treating Thursday’s attack at 6.30pm as attempted murder.
Sources say the man was targeted in retaliation for his part in a previous incident involving guns.
 Forensic teams sealed off part of Glasgow’s Royston Road as they scoured the scene of the shooting. 
Residents of the quiet street were shocked at the violence – and sickened that it happened when children could have been out playing.
 

 One young mum said: “The police need to sort this out as soon as possible.” 

The victim was stepping out of his Audi when he was deliberately run over by the 4x4, police said.
The attackers then turned the car around before shooting him.
The vehicle was later found dumped in the Robroyston area.
A source said: “This wasn’t a random attack.
 “A group of people were after the victim and they managed to get to him. There has been an  ongoing feud which has been getting worse in the last few weeks. 
“There was no way a member of the public was going to get caught up in this. The people involved are well-known locally.”
Detective Inspector Ogilvie Ross said: “I believe this was a targeted attack.
“The man had just got out of his Audi when he was deliberately driven at and knocked to the ground by the occupants of a white Mitusbishi 4x4.
 


“After driving a short distance, the car returned and one of the men got out and shot the man while he was on the ground.
 “Officers are carrying out door-to-door inquiries and are checking CCTV to find out who was responsible. 
“It is imperative that we catch those responsible.
“Thankfully, no one else was injured, but it is very obvious that those responsible did not have any thought for the safety of the locals. Royston Road is residential, with lots of people about, especially at that time of the evening.
“To discharge a firearm in that kind of area and especially at that time is absolutely outrageous.”
A local mum said: “It’s frightening to think the kids could have been out playing when this happened. It’s quiet here but there are rough types all around.”

  

More news from Glasgow 
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

