 EWAN MCGREGOR will attend this year's Edinburgh International Film Festival (EIFF) to talk about his acting career. 
 The Scot's latest film Last Days In The Desert will show at the 69th festival, whose highlights include the UK premiere of a documentary about the life of tragic singer Amy Winehouse . 
Audiences will also see the Beach Boys biopic Love &amp; Mercy, zombie drama Maggie starring Arnold Schwarzenegger and the Disney-Pixar animated film Inside Out.
The full programme was announced today by EIFF artistic director Mark Adams and includes a series of interviews on stage with leading film personalities, among them McGregor, Jane Seymour and Malcolm McDowell.
The festival, which runs from June 17 to 28, boasts 24 world premieres and 84 UK premieres.
It will host the first showing of the English-language version of Under Milk Wood, adapted from the Dylan Thomas classic and starring Rhys Ifans and Charlotte Church.
Mr Adams said: &quot;We are delighted to be presenting such a thrilling, fun, challenging, provocative, exciting and balanced programme.
&quot;There really is something for everyone and we hope that filmgoers will get a lot of pleasure out of this year's festival.&quot;
 

The film showcase will open with actor Robert Carlyle's directorial debut set in Glasgow, The Legend Of Barney Thomson, which stars Emma Thompson and Ray Winstone.
Among the contenders for this year's Michael Powell Award for best British film and best performance are Andrew Haigh's 45 Years, starring Charlotte Rampling and Tom Courtenay, and Jake Gavin's Hector, featuring Peter Mullan as a homeless man.
 In Last Days in the Desert, Trainspotting and Star Wars actor McGregor plays Jesus in an imagined chapter from his 40 days of fasting and praying in the desert. 
Scotland's Culture Secretary Fiona Hyslop said: &quot;The Edinburgh International Film Festival has produced another excellent programme in 2015, showcasing Scottish talent alongside some of the best of world cinema.
&quot;The film festival attracts visitors to Edinburgh and Scotland as well as giving local residents the opportunity to see wonderfully diverse and creative films on their doorstep.
&quot;By nurturing talent within the industry the EIFF has an important role to play in developing skills to support the future of Scottish film-making.&quot;
 Test your knowledge with our showbiz quiz: 

