ASYLUM seekers claim they have been abandoned by a private property firm paid &pound;60million to help house them.
 They say some have been left isolated in homes as staff working for Berkshire-based Orchard &amp;  Shipman ignore their problems. 
One refugee told how she had to push a table against their door at night for weeks after her home was burgled and the front door was not fixed.
Others have told of being forced to live in houses without proper heating over the winter.
Orchard and Shipman are paid to house around 3000 refugees in Scotland on a contract that could last until 2019.
Support workers helping asylum seekers in Glasgow’s Govan and Shettleston say many feel under threat.
Serco were awarded the contract to provide asylum housing by the Home Office but subcontracted to Orchard &amp; Shipman.
Serco’s &pound;175million deal came with strict guidelines under the Commercial and Operational Managers Procuring Asylum Support Services (Compass).
Compass states that contractors must provide “safe, habitable, fit for purpose and correctly equipped” homes.
 

It also says asylum seekers should be given help to locate local services, a clear complaints procedure and help to manage anti-social behaviour at the accommodation.
One mum-of-three told how she had complained for more than six months about a broken mattress which was causing severe back pain but was ignored.
And another refugee told how it took the company two weeks to secure her front door after a break- in at the flat.
Single mum Hanna Bahta, 39, fled from Eritrea in 2009. She lives in a one-bedroom flat in Govan with four-year-old daughter Alena.
She said: “I had to move from Eritrea because it was dangerous for me, I was not safe.
“The Home Office refused my appeal and I just have to wait. It could be another year or another 10 years.
“I was moved into this flat around a year ago but I don’t feel safe.
“We were burgled earlier this month. They took &pound;500 which I had saved up over five years.
“I told Orchard &amp; Shipman, who came to fix the door, but that took two weeks.
 

“There was a temporary lock on the door but it was weak, if somebody pushed it, it would give way.
“We had to put the kitchen table in front of the door at night. We were very scared.
“It’s very difficult to get in contact with Orchard &amp; Shipman and most of the time they can’t give you any idea of when they will help.
“Sometimes I worry that I am complaining too much to them. I worry they will try to change my house again. A lot of the time they tell me it depends on the Home Office, but they don’t accept responsibility. I don’t know where to go.”
Development worker Owen Fenn, who helps asylum seekers at Govan and Craigton Integration Service, said: “In my experience Orchard &amp; Shipman demonstrate an incredible amount of arrogance.
“The welcome pack and occupancy agreement, which is a contractual obligation for them to provide, is only available in English and has been for two and a half years.
“People are being asked to sign a document they don’t understand, agreeing to this standard of accommodation.
“This has been highlighted, but nothing has been done.
 

“The properties are meant to have thorough checks to make sure they meet a particular standard.
 “In my experience, this happens very rarely. One of the problems is the confusion over who to report  problems to – the Home Office, Serco or Orchard &amp; Shipman. 
“I’ve dealt with a lady who got moved into a flat that was so damp it had a major impact on her child’s health and she developed asthma and a wheezing cough.
“She was told every day for two months that she was going to be moved the following day before it eventually happened.
“I had a lady in tears in my office just the other day. She felt no one was listening to her.
“She had been called on a Friday and told she had to move out of her house on the Monday.
“She’d had lots of issues and tried so many different avenues to try and get them fixed and it had finally broken her.
“They were simple things – a broken washing machine or rubble in the garden.”
Owen, a board member at charity City of Sanctuary, also accuses Orchard &amp; Shipman staff of a culture of bullying and harassment.
 

He said: “I have dealt with complaints about racist remarks made to asylum seekers.
“I have forwarded these complaints to Orchard &amp; Shipman and nothing seems to be getting done.
“I’ve also had harassment complaints, where the staff try to force these people to do what the company want.
“One person was very ill and the member of staff was telling her to move all of her belongings out of the room and shouting at her.
 “The asylum seekers are terrified because some members of staff have been telling them that if they  complain then it will affect their asylum claim. That’s the type of culture they are creating.” 
The new claims come after a damning report by the Scottish Refugee Council flagged up major concerns about substandard accommodation from the provider last year.
The report, conducted over a year, found that concerns were raised about a lack of adequate heating or hot water, filthy properties, no locks on doors and families having to share accommodation with strangers.
 

The homes provided by Orchard &amp; Shipman are a mix of private let and housing association properties.
 Around 50 per cent of asylum seekers housed in Scotland live in Glasgow’s east end, mostly in  Shettleston and Parkhead. A further 25 per cent are in south Glasgow, around Govan and Ibrox. 
The remainder are in Springburn and other parts of the city. The deal with Orchard &amp; Shipman was the first time the private sector had been involved in housing refugees in Scotland.
Between 2000 and 2006, accommodation was provided by Glasgow City Council.
And up to 2011, it was provided through the council, the Angel Group and the charity Ypeople (formerly YMCA Glasgow).
Asylum seekers in Scotland come from all over the world including Somalia, Zimbabwe, Pakistan and Eritrea. The vast majority have fled war, torture or persecution.
Last night Graham O’Neill, policy officer at the Scottish Refugee Council said: “When people arrive here seeking asylum they are in desperate need.
“Their first place of shelter in Scotland must, at the very least, be safe and secure and meet minimum standards of habitability.
“We’ve been concerned for some time about reports of poor quality housing, including flats that don’t have heating or hot water throughout the winter months or decent locks on the door.
 “We don’t believe multinational companies are the best organisations to provide accommodation to  people with specialist needs or that businesses should see people’s desperation and vulnerability as a chance to make money. 
“It would make more sense for asylum housing to be devolved to Scottish Ministers .
“We agree with the Scottish Government that whoever provides this housing should do so without commercial gain as their priority.”

