THE number of prison officers signed off for stress related illnesses in Scotland has soared by 20 per cent with more than 35,000 working days lost over the last four years.
Staff – who work round the clock in eight-hour shifts – took a total of 280,000 hours off citing a range of conditions including anxiety, depression and emotional upset.
The Scottish Prison Service and the prison officers’ union have described the increase as “a cause for concern”.
Since 2011, there have been more than 1000 instances of stress related sick leave by prison officers, according to figures obtained by the Sunday Mail.
In 2011/12, there were 238 instances of staff being signed off, but by 2014/15 the figures had reached 309 – an increase of 20 per cent.
This equates to 10 days off over the four-year period for each of the 3424 uniformed staff currently employed by the SPS.
Elaine Murray, deputy convener of Holyrood’s Justice Committee, said: “The fact that we have a very high prison population is going to place stress on the organisation.
“That’s one of the things that needs to be addressed so that staff aren’t exposed to so much stress.
“But changes to pensions means people are expected to work much longer and I think that’s caused a lot of anxiety and stress within the service.” Stress was the most common reason for absence in the prison service, with 176 of the 309 staff signed off last year citing it as the cause. This resulted in 5629 working days lost.
A total of 35,486 working days have been lost by staff suffering stress related conditions since 2011.
Andy Hogg, of the Prison Officers’ Association union in Scotland, admitted: “I’m very concerned about the rise in these figures.
“We would seek to engage with the SPS to find out what the underlying factors might be that are driving this increase.” The SPS said they had initiatives in place to support staff and added: “It’s quite likely that a lot of these losses are down to a small number of individuals.
“Lots of workplaces can be quite stressful – and prisons are no different. We ask people to do sometimes a very difficult and challenging job and it does take its toll on some of our staff.
“We do everything we can to support them and have a very well developed employee assistance programme that’s available to people who feel they need help with any medical or other problems.”
Researchers at the University of Bedfordshire studied prison officers from all over the UK last year and found their mental health was at risk.
The study claimed officers often reported psychological problems related to working conditions, such as depression, emotional exhaustion and sleeping difficulties.
The problem was exacerbated because many officers felt admitting to work-related stress would be seen as weakness.
