MEET Lucy Lintott and Gordon Aikman, joint winners of the top honour at this year’s Daily Record Our Heroes awards.
Lucy is the youngest motor neurone disease sufferer in Scotland, while fellow sufferer Gordon Aikman has raised more than &pound;250,000 to help researchers find a cure.
Lucy was only 19 when she was given the devastating diagnosis. Gordon, just 30, is slowly losing his ability to walk, eat and breathe.
Lucy is working through a bucket list of 45 dreams which will raise &pound;100,000 while Gordon aims to soon break through his &pound;500,000 target. Gordon, from Edinburgh, said: “Every day, I’m becoming more disabled.
“I want to do all I can while I’m still able – I don’t have long left.

“It’s a huge honour to be given this award and it’s one I never expected. I’m determined to do all I can to help fund research for this terrible disease.”
Lucy, 20, from Garmouth, Moray, said she was “thrilled” to be given the top award. She said: “I know things will get worse but each day I wake up happy is another day I’ve beaten MND.”
Lucy added: “It was such a good idea to share it between us.”
“We are on the same team,” added Gordon. “It’s about raising the money that leads to the research that will eventually find a cure.”
They got a standing ovation as they were welcomed to the stage by Alex Salmond.
The former first minister said: “The courage Gordon and Lucy have shown in the face of tremendous adversity is overwhelming.
“They are worthy winners and it was a privilege to be able to share the stage with them and hand over the overall winner awards.”
 

Daily Record editor Murray Foote said: “People like Gordon and Lucy are the reason Our Heroes exists. They are truly inspiring and very deserving joint winners of the top award.”
The duo were also crowned joint Fundraising Heroes, sponsored by the Buchanan Galleries.
More than 400 guests attended the glittering evening, sponsored by Lidl and hosted by Fred MacAulay, at the Thistle Hotel in Glasgow.
Euan Fitzpatrick, of headline sponsor Lidl, said: “We are extremely proud to sponsor Our Heroes Awards and it is an honour and privilege to be involved in such as heart-warming event. Scotland has so many inspirational people and it is only right we honour those who go above and beyond to demonstrate extraordinary courage and bravery. ”

A host of celebrities added a touch of glamour to the night. River City star Libby McArthur collected the Entertainment Hero award on behalf of Johnny Beattie.
Guests were treated to performances from X Factor finalists Rebecca Ferguson and Nicholas McDonald.
The real stars, though, were the winners and finalists.
 

Ethne Woldman won the Senior Hero award, sponsored by McCarthy &amp; Stone. She has spent decades helping Auschwitz survivors from the Romanian town of Targu-Mures.
The 70-year-old, from Newton Mearns, near Glasgow, learned of their appalling poverty and poor living conditions during a visit.

When she returned home, she contacted Jewish supporters and formed the Targu-Mures Trust. She said: “This is an honour I never expected and one that means so much to me.”
There was hardly a dry eye as the widow of soldier Corporal William Savage collected the Forces Hero award on behalf of her husband, who was killed while on patrol in Afghanistan.

Lynzy Savage, 29, from Midlothian, was eight months pregnant when her husband lost his life in April 2013. She received the honour, sponsored by Stagecoach Group, from Loose Women presenter Kaye Adam.
Lynzy said: “William was so looking forward to being a dad and it’s a shame that he never got the chance to see his little boy. We will cherish this award.”
Lindsay Reid, Stagecoach’s senior group communications manager, said: “We never fail to be amazed at the inspirational stories that the awards unearth every year.”

Our Little Heroes winners Eilidh Duncan, three, Calum Lambert, four, and Alyssa McLean, eight, were the shining stars of the evening.
Eilidh, who has a rare condition that destroys the intestine, was said to be unlikely to survive beyond her first birthday but lives life to the full.
Calum was diagnosed with aplastic anaemia and has endured more than 1000 medical procedures.
 

Alyssa can’t feel pain. Rather than it being a blessing, she has caused herself horrific injuries.
Before the ceremony, the kids were given VIP treatment by Buchanan Galleries where they were kitted out in outfits from Next and treated to toys and teddies then climbed aboard the Lidl Health Factor bus.
Norma Douglas, of sponsor The Lidl Health Factor, said: “These kids are just amazing, they really are little troopers.”
Jay Beatty and Maria Lyle captured hearts as they were crowned joint Sporting Heroes, sponsored by QTS, by Scotland boss Gordon Strachan. Celtic fan Jay, 11, who has Down’s syndrome, won the Scottish Premiership Goal of the Month award after scoring a penalty at half-time in a Hamilton v Celtic clash.

His dad Martin said: “Scotland has taken Jay to their hearts. It has been quite overwhelming.”
Maria, 15, from Dunbar, East Lothian, defied cerebral palsy to defeat a field of adults and win double gold at the European Paralympic Championships. She broke two world records in one day.
Maria said: “I’m really pleased to be here tonight and meeting all these amazing people. Getting the award is a really nice feeling.”
Phyllis McLeish, finance director of sponsor QTS, said: “It’s the third year we’ve been involved and you never fail to be inspired by some of the stories.”
Winners included Our Community Heroes Steven Robertson, 31, and Robert Storrie, 30, from Barrhead, near Glasgow.
 

While returning from a part dressed as the Joker and Robin, they helped save people from a burning building in Paisley. They then set up The Superhero Fire Fund to raise cash for a family who had lost everything.
Emergency Services Hero PC Tonianne Ewart, 26, was honoured after she saved the life of a man threatening to throw himself off a multi-storey car park by grabbing hold of his clothing and holding on until help arrived.

Tonianne said: “I feel quite humbled. It’s just something I’d expect to do.”
The Caring Hero award, sponsored by the Scottish Government, went to Marie Curie nurse Elizabeth Grieve. The 60-year-old, of Dumfries, dedicates her life to terminally ill patients.

She said: “I see my job as a blessing. What I do is a real privilege.”
Health Secretary Shona Robison said: “There are so many great nominations I don’t know how the judges choose but when you see someone like Liz Grieve winning it all makes sense.”
Elizabeth revealed on stage that one of her team had recently been given a &pound;100 speeding fine en route to a dying patient. MacAulay and Salmond teamed up to pay the fine for her.

