A DISABLED woman yesterday told MSPs she has contemplated suicide because of heartless new benefits tests she fears will rob her of her job.
Moira Sinclair, 44, is in agony with severe osteo-arthritis and has pins and plates in her hips and pelvis.
But the IT administrator continues to work full time, thanks to her mobility car and blue badge that lets her park outside her office and home.
But in shocking evidence to Holyrood’s welfare reform committee, Moira told how she fears she will lose them because of changes under new personal independence payments.
Moira, from Livingston, said: “I am terrified, I cannot see how my life can continue.
“I have contemplated ending things if I do not continue to have my Motability car and blue badge.”
Under old disability living allowance rules, claimants unable to walk more than 50 metres got a higher mobility rate. But the Con-Dem Government cut it to 20 metres for PIP.
About 50,000 disabled people in Scotland stand to lose up to &pound;3000 a year in brutal changes to slash the welfare bill.
But thousands like Moira who use the benefits to get to work could end up on the dole, costing the state more.
Moira is likely to be reassessed next year. She added: “What should I do, keep working and contributing or give up, stop work, be in a wheelchair before PIP assessment comes along?”
MSPs also heard from mum-of-four Alison Arnott, 45, who was left with serious brain damage after a trampolining accident.
The physiotherapist, who works one day a week, had to wait more than a year for PIP and had to appeal.
Alison, from Denny near Falkirk, said: “When I was refused, it had a terrible effect. It was like they didn’t believe I had been injured.
“The attitude was that if I can work at all I shouldn’t be given any help.”
Committee chairman Michael McMahon vowed to raise issues with the Department for Work and Pensions. He said: “We have to get this right and from the evidence we have heard that clearly isn’t happening.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

