MORE than 5000 cyclists braved monsoon conditions for the gruelling Marie Curie Etape Caledonia bike ride.
The annual race through some of Britain’s most scenic roads took place in constant heavy rain, which made the 81 mile marathon more arduous for the hardy sould that took part.
The event raised more than &pound;380,000 for the official charity thanks to the fundraising efforts of more than 900 of the competitors.
Commonwealth Games double silver medallist Louise Haston was among those to put a brave face on the conditions after finishing.
Louise, who partnered Paralympic star Aileen McGlynn in the track cycling tandem event, said: “I’ve had an incredible day at the Marie Curie Cancer Care Etape Caledonia, the atmosphere in Pitlochry and along the course has been absolutely brilliant. “It’s been a challenging ride but one I’ll remember for a long time because of the smiling faces and friendliness of everyone I’ve had the opportunity to meet along the way.”
 

Cyclists were up at dawn to navigate the stunning closed road course, covering a total ascent of 1,196m.
The cyclists meandered around Loch Tummel and Loch Rannoch before approaching the steeps of Schiehallion and returning to Pitlochry to crowds of cheering supporters.
First woman to cross the line was Mireille Captieux, of Edinburgh. She said: “Despite the rain it was a really great event, there was a good bunch of us taking it in turns and I actually didn’t feel the cold at all. Having such beautiful roads and scenery teamed with great organisation makes all the difference.”
 

James Wright, from Marie Curie, said: “It’s been another fantastic year for the Marie Curie Cancer Care Etape Caledonia. A huge thank you to all the cyclists and everyone who turned out to support what was a spectacular event.
“We’ve been amazed by everyone’s fundraising efforts which will enable us to help more people living with a terminal illness, and their families across the UK.”
Credited as the UK’s first closed road sportive back in 2007, the sportive became the biggest event of its kind.
Riders turned out in great numbers in 2010 to show defiance against mean spirited saboteurs who had littered the road with tacks the previous year.


