THE devastated dad of a young stock car racer killed on the track has told how he catches himself calling for his son at the bottom of the stairs.
Champion driver Keir Millar, 11, died after a horrific accident at a race in Lochgelly, Fife, a fortnight ago.
Keir was laid to rest yesterday in an emotional ceremony in his home town of Lockerbie.
Keir competed in the Ministox racing series and won a championship in England last year.
His dad Keith said the family have had words of support from around the world.
Keith said: “It’s been a hard week for the family, it certainly has, but the messages of support have been absolutely fantastic.
“We have had tears with the kind thoughts that have come from the racing community throughout the world. It has helped us to know that he was so well thought of.
“I have had telephone calls from all over Britain, South Africa, Holland and Germany, some from people I don’t know.
“We would like to thank everyone for their kind words and for sharing their happy memories of Keir. We are struggling to cope with the knowledge that he will never again walk through the door.
“I still find myself shouting on him at the bottom of the stairs sometimes. It’s heartbreaking.”

Members of the oval racing community paid tribute to Keir last weekend when stock car drivers across the UK painted their bumpers gold in memory of the “wee man”.
About 750 people packed out Lochmaben Church yesterday for a service to celebrate Keir’s life.
Mourners were asked to wear what they wished. Several wore their racing overalls or T-shirts with 143 – Keir’s racing number – on them
Painted on the small coffin was a chequered flag along with a picture of Keir and his racing car.
Friends and family spoke of their love for Keir then the coffin was driven to the cemetery.
Keith, who was a leading stock car racer in the 1980s, said: “The minis have been going 35 years and there’s never been anything like this.
“There must have been thousands of kiddies in minis in that time. I just don’t know what to say.
“Keir was our little superstar and always will be.”

