IT'S been a landmark of the Largs seafront for 80 years…now it’s basking in the glow of national glory.
Nardini’s Esplanade Cafe is officially the best ice cream parlour in Scotland after scooping our Golden Cone.
The iconic cafe has emerged gleaming and gorgeous from a &pound;2.5million refurbishment.
And it has reclaimed its place in the hearts of ice cream lovers across the land.
Owner David Equi, who has poured heart, soul and cash into the place, says he can’t believe all the hard work has paid off.
He said: “I’m just delighted to have won this. We knew we stood a good chance if we could persuade the Golden Cone judges to pay us a visit because we try to get the wow factor right as soon as you walk in the door.
“It’s the fact our customers voted for us to win that means the most. We’re really proud of Nardini’s and all our staff.”
Hundreds of readers nominated the Ayrshire cafe for the Golden Cone award and our judging panel were bowled over by what they found there.
From its seafront location, where all the ice cream is made on site, Nardini’s dazzled with an array of 48 mouth-watering flavours as well as fast and friendly service.
Actress Libby McArthur, who was one of our judges, said: “The theatre starts as soon as you walk in. It takes me back in time to an era where I feel like I’m in a postcard or movie or in love. And the ice cream is to die for.”
Seven Days columnist Cat Harvey said: “Nardini’s is special. It oozes class and the art deco surroundings are fabulous, matched only by the welcome.”
Ice cream industry expert Jean Pearce said: “The ice cream is spot-on and the display is beautiful. But the cafe gets it right too with good, traditional service.”
 

The historic cafe was placed in receivership in 2003 but David and business partner Sep Marini bought it the following year.
After a difficult period trying to run it as a going concern, they had to accept closure and full refurbishment was the only option.
It took four years, stripping back the parlour – a listed building – right to its very core before they could reopen.
They created an on-site ice cream lab with a viewing window and incorporated a pizza restaurant as well as restoring the old fish-and-chips-style cafe.
But when David says turning around the fortunes of the art deco beauty was a labour of love, he doesn’t just mean in business.
He met his fiancee Helen Mitchell when she was a masters student working in the cafe.
The couple are set to marry in Italy in five weeks and they’re even shipping over some of their favourite ice cream.
David said: “We’ve got a mystery wedding flavour which I can’t reveal because it’s a secret for the guests but we’ve also got a mojito and ginger sorbet which has also been specially made.
“When we got engaged, we had a Nardini’s ice cream cart and Helen and I were handing out cones. We both love ice cream but I’ve been told to lay off it for a while cause I need to lose a bit of weight before the wedding.
“So getting married and winning the Golden Cone – it couldn’t be better.”
Nadia Millar, of awards sponsors Waverley Bakery, said: “Nardini’s is a more than worthy winner of this year’s Golden Cone.
“The ice cream is extremely impressive but the whole experience is such an enjoyable one.”

