HUNDREDS of schoolchildren have begun an online campaign complaining this year’s Higher Maths exams were too difficult.
For the first time this year children had the option of sitting the new Higher but many schools opted to continue teaching the original Higher syllabus.
But pupils sitting both exams were shocked by the levels of difficulty when they saw the paper on Wednesday. And many of them wrote to the Daily Record voicing their concerns.
One S5 pupil at The Glasgow Academy who wrote to the Daily Record said: “I sat the old higher maths exam. I am writing to you in the hope that you can raise the awareness of the difficulty of this unfair examination.
“ I am assuming that I am not the only email you will have received about this as the majority of people who sat the exam found it to be very tricky and unfairly difficult compared to previous years.”
She continued: “I was sitting the old higher exam and it is the course and exam style questions I am familiar with, yet, there were many of the same questions appearing in both the new higher and the old higher. I feel this is unfair as being an old higher candidate I was not used to these styles of questions.
“I was hoping to attain 5As in my highers this year in order to study medicine at university but I no longer think I will achieve this grade in mathematics.
“I studied extremely hard for my maths exam (more than 60 hours in the past month) and did every past paper from the year 2000 in which I managed to score very well.
“I no longer feel confident in my abilities and feel extremely disheartened by this paper.”
 

Another student said: “While I’m unsure if this is something you’d be willing to report, after having sat the (old) Higher Maths paper yesterday it is clear that the SQA severely underestimated the difficulty of the paper as it was significantly above the level candidates had been prepared for.
“Additionally, the SQA’s poor explanation of one question meant that the majority of candidates, myself included, were unable to interpret what was asked of them and are likely to lose marks as a result.”
He added: “I’ve spoken to several other students both in person and online and many feel that an overly difficult paper will prevent them getting the grades their hard work deserves and thus cost them university places.”
Another said: “After sitting that exam, many of us have been left feeling stressed, especially for those of us who need these grades to meet our university requirements and feel that our position has been jeopardized.
“Our school chose to sit the old higher, as we would be familiar with the style of the questions from previous years. However, this was not the case, as the style of questions in yesterday’s paper can in no way shape or form be compared to previous years. I did every single past paper since 2000 -2014 and the questions given to us yesterday were of a higher standard.
“I feel depressed by the questions that I was given in the paper and the fact that I was unable to answer a considerable amount of them due to the lack of time. This was not because I did not have good time management but was in fact because the questions were so wordy, that they often required you to read them a good few times before you could even understand what they were asking you.
I somewhat feel that I have wasted time and effort in trying to prepare myself for this exam, as it was an exam that I now look at, and think that no matter how long I spent studying I could not have prepared for. It was an exam, I am sure many teachers would agree that they could not prepare their students for either.
But it was not only the old higher pupils who were concerned. One of the new higher students said: “I am sure you are already aware of the online uproar about the new higher maths exam yesterday, however I am writing to you just to try and help raise awareness so that the SQA realise what they have put many people through and lower the grade boundaries.
“Yesterday’s exam was nothing like any model paper or even previous papers up to 2000.
“ I have always achieved solid A grades in maths however I am very worried that in that exam I will not get an A and be unable to pursue the career goal I would have liked to.”

General Secretary of the teachers’union, EIS, Larry Flanagan said the SQA had procedures in place to iron out “rogue” questions.
He explained that if there was a question in an exam paper which abut 95 per cent got wrong it would be removed from the overall score and grades would be adjusted accordingly. He also said that if the percentage curve for passing the exam was lower in the old higher compared ti the new one, the grade percentages could also be adjusted.
He said: “They can adjust the grade boundaries for any rogue questions which are out of kilter with the range of pupils’ ability.”
Flanagan continued: “I have not had any direct feedback from teachers yet because they will probably not see the papers until today but we will have a meeting at the end of next month to discuss issues like this.
“We would encourage the SQA to ensure there is parity between the Highers to ensure no pupil is disadvantaged.”
But he said it was proof that the exam appeals system shoud not have been changed until the new national examinations had a chance to bed in.
He said: “We agreed the appeals sysem needed to be changed but it shouldn’t have been changed in the early years of the new qualifications.
“Pupils are no longer allowed to rely on their prelim marks for an appeal unless in extreme circumstances but until the new exams have been tested this should have been allowed to continue.”
Try our news quiz below

