SHAMED preacher Walter Masocha abused the trust of women in his flock who literally worshipped the ground he walked on.
A disillusioned member of his church told how he surrounded himself with women he called Daddy’s Dancing Girls and would give them flannels soaked in his sweat as gifts.
Images showing women throwing themselves at Masocha, founder of the Stirling-based Agape for All Nations Church, during one of his sermons can be revealed as he prepares to be sentenced after being convicted of two sex charges.
A six-day trial heard he groped a deaconess while he was supposed to be praying for her stomach complaint and put his hand down a schoolgirl’s trousers saying he was trying to remove demons.
When the 32-year-old victim told her husband, also a member of the church, he told her: “The prophet is seeing something in your genitals that needs to be removed, so he was removing that.”
Church members later tried to have her sectioned.
But a former member told the Sunday Mail that suspicions were raised over Zimbabwe-born Masocha’s behaviour in 2008.
We told how he sparked concern after regularly inviting women worshippers to private “surgeries” held in his bedroom but banned their husbands from attending.
One churchgoer, who is still a member of Agape, said: “He was obviously behaving inappropriately at this point.
“People made the suggestion that we get the Association of Christian Counsellors involved but that was ignored.
“Masocha didn’t want that because he wouldn’t be able to get away with what he was doing.
“There were women flocking around him all the time, they worshipped him.
“People travelled from all over the UK to see him. Often there were women in sleeping bags on his living room floor as they waited for an appointment with him.
“It caused divisions between many married couples, because he would see the wives in his bedroom and not let the husbands in.
“He’d gain their trust and shut out their husbands.
“He liked to be called Daddy or Baba, the females all called him that. Nobody called him Walter, that would have been seen as disrespectful.”
  Inquiry demanded into spending of sex shame preacher Walter Masocha who enjoyed a life of luxury
 

Our photographs of Masocha, 51, were taken at a family service for all the factions of Agape held in Doncaster in August 2008.
He travelled to the event from his home in Stirling with many of his Scottish followers so the church could make him an “apostle”.
The church has worshippers from all over the UK but the Stirling congregation was seen as its lynchpin.
Masocha’s hold over the female members of his flock is clear.
The images show women lying at his feet, as he performs a so-called “deliverance” ritual by touching their heads. One witness said: “The women were literally at his feet. They were known as Daddy’s Dancing Girls.
“It wasn’t healthy, they thought he was anointed.
“He encouraged this. The speakers who recommended he be made an apostle at the conference were organised by him.
“It was all ego. He would take advantage of vulnerable people who wanted support.
“He was like their father figure and I think that was what the draw was, he just showered them with love and concern.”
The church member now believes Masocha preyed on vulnerable people to set up his church.

He added: “The church started off with no officials at all but he was promising people positions.
“We had a whole year of running around doing things for him, hoping we would get positions.
“Looking back, I can see it was him conditioning everybody, controlling everybody.
“He gave out the flannels he used to wipe his brow with as gifts.
“Everybody would buy him food and prepare it, but nobody could eat until he had prayed for it.
“There was always just a big fuss around him.
“He would walk in and sit down and everyone ran around after him. He had a cook, a driver and a bodyguard.
“As far as he was concerned he’d been anointed and he didn’t want that image to be compromised.
“These people were in a bad place psychologically so it was easy for him to have control over them.”
Former Stirling University lecturer Masocha, who was paid by the church, has also been accused of putting pressure on his followers to part with their cash.
The church member told us: “Soon after the church was set up, Dr Masocha gave up his post at the university.
“It meant that the members had to support him financially which was a big burden for us all. People were encouraged to give as much as they could.
“I know people who gave donations of more than &pound;1000.”
In April, a jury at Falkirk Sheriff Court convicted Masocha of sexually assaulting the deaconess and sexually touching the teen.
He had earlier been cleared of two other charges, including one of sexual behaviour with a 13-year-old girl.
He is due to be sentenced on Tuesday.

PASTORS in African churches often have huge influence on their congregations, according to an expert.
Dr Naomi Haynes of Edinburgh University, who has studied African religion, said: “It’s very common for pastors to be at the centre of what happens in their churches.
“In southern Africa in general, especially in pentecostal churches like this, pastors often have a great deal of control, authority and power.
“So they fit into a paradigm of spiritual authority that you see reflected in other kinds of relationships too, for example chiefs, elders or political leaders.
“It’s not uncommon in terms of hierarchy.
“Donation of money is also quite common.
“A lot of pentecostals in this part of the world have been influenced by the prosperity gospel – a Christian movement that says if you give to the church then God will give to you in return.
“Part of it is giving to honour the pastor but part of it is using the pastor as a proxy for God in that exchange.
“They have to give to a person or institution that is God’s representative.
“But if people are unhappy with the way the pastor is acting or if they don’t feel they’re experiencing divine blessing, they just go somewhere else.
“People vote with their feet, and they have a great deal of independence which is one way that they can hold pastors accountable.”
MASOCHA has been charged with another sex offence.
He will be sentenced on Tuesday for preying on two members of his Agape for All Nations church.
But we can reveal he has been reported to the fiscal over another matter of a similar nature.
It is understood he was reported to police in January and the matter is now being dealt with by the Crown.
Last night a police spokesman said: “We can confirm a 51-year-old man was charged with a historic sexual offence.”
The Crown Office added: “The procurator fiscal at Stirling has received a report concerning a 51-year-old man in connection with incidents said to have occurred between January 2008 and December 2010.
“The case is now under consideration by the fiscal.”
  Inquiry demanded into spending of sex shame preacher who enjoyed a life of luxury
Test your knowledge with our news quiz:

