A TEENAGE lottery winner’s mum has told of the night a thug she thought was a friend held a knife to her throat in her home.
 Linda Restorick – whose daughter Jane Park won &pound;1million in 2013, aged 17 – told how she was robbed by a woman she’d known her whole life. 
Natasha Stirling, who was out of her head on legal highs, forced her way in, sprayed perfume in Linda’s eyes then held a knife to her neck.
Linda, 44, barricaded herself in the bathroom before Stirling, 32, got away with a handbag holding &pound;630.
 Scared Linda, of Prestonfield, Edinburgh, said: “I thought I was going to die that night. I’ll never be the same Linda again.” 
Daughter Jane, 19, said: “Mum was happier before the attack. I’ve noticed a change in her.”
Linda said she had been left terrified in her own home.
She said: “I’ve known Natasha her whole life. She lived at the bottom of the street. I’d sit with her and talk with her and would give her &pound;5 every week for her Chinese, so for her to do this is just unimaginable.
“I almost feel like I planted the idea because I said to her after Jane’s win that I felt a bit vulnerable here.
“I’m constantly terrified in my own home now and I always sit in the bedroom. That’s the only place I’ve redecorated since the attack and it feels like a different house.
“The door is always locked and if I can’t tell who is at the door or they can’t tell me who they are, I won’t answer it. I’m scared.
“The only reason I went to the door that night was because I heard Natasha’s voice.”
 Stirling was yesterday jailed for 12 months when she appeared at Edinburgh Sheriff Court. 
The court heard she smashed a window and entered Linda’s home as the homeowner frantically locked herself in the toilet.
She managed to spray Linda in the face with perfume then held a three-inch blade to her throat.
Police later picked Stirling up at the Ball Room pub in Jock’s Lodge, where she was trying to sell stolen laptops. Officers found a bank card belonging to Linda.
Stirling admitted breaking in, attacking Linda, demanding her bank card PIN and robbing her of a handbag and wallet last December.
She also admitted the reset of a handbag, wallet, two laptops and a hard drive stolen from a house in Prestonfield three days before.
Solicitor Mark Hutchison said Stirling was using legal highs and her “recollection is affected by taking them”.
Sheriff Frank Crowe said: “I cannot overlook the terrible violence.”
He jailed Stirling for 12 months, backdated to December, and put her on a six-month supervision order.
 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

