LISA HAGUE and Nicholas McDonald were warned by Alan Shearer not to carry out their Celtic Park Seat challenge for fear of injuring themselves.
The fiancee of Celtic player Kris Commons and the X Factor finalist are aiming to sit on every available seat at Celtic Park within 4 days as part of Lisa’s fundraising challenge to raise &pound;30,000 for Marie Curie for her 30th birthday.
The two friends will be sitting on 55,500 available seats next week over 4 days between today and Thursday, averaging 13,875 seats a day.
The two who were feeling perky at the start of their task today admitted they’d both been told not to do the challenge by retired England footballer Alan Shearer OBE after he carried out a similar seat challenge for Sport Relief at Wembley last year.
Lisa said: “Alan Shearer messaged us this morning and said we will feel the burn. He said on the phone ‘It’s a total no go.'”
Nicholas added: “His wife was taking him out of bed a week later and a year or so down the line he still feels it.”

The determined duo have a sports massage therapist and nurse on hand to check them out regularly over the next few days and Lisa admitted she was already feeling dubious about completing the task before she began.
She said: “As well as sitting on every seat we’ve got to go up and down every step at Celtic and that’s hard when you cramp up and are at the top of the stadium coming down the steps. I suddenly figured I suffer from vertigo.”
Nicholas, who raced away from Lisa as soon as they began, laughed: “I will have a bum like Beyonce for free after this.”
Both challengers will get a visit from the Celtic squad on Wednesday.
Lisa said: “Kris and the lads are doing a team golfing day today and the boys will turn up on Wednesday to spur us on. It’s best that people see us at our worst, when we will be crying. Right now we look excited and clean but soon we will be grumpy. Kris doesn’t think I’ll complete the challenge and the physio at Celtic said we’d probably not want anyone to touch us.”
 

The two, who stretched before they began at 10am were given a pep talk by sports physiotherapist Beth Vance who warned them against DOMS - Delayed Onset of Muscle Soreness - which gets worse over the second and third day.
Beth said: “There’s also a risk of hamstring strain when you are doing so many squats. I will be massaging Lisa and Nicholas at the end of today which should help a bit.”

You can sponsor their challenge by visiting Lisa’s Just Giving page: www.justgiving.com/lisaandnicky, Lisa and Nicholas’ Seat Challenge website or texting SEAT56 &pound;3 to 70070 to donate &pound;3 (or change the amount to &pound;5 or &pound;10).
Test your knowledge with our news quiz:

