A SCOTS lotto winner described his &pound;8 million jackpot as ‘lovely’ during the phone call to claim his life-changing prize.
Stunned Philip Dunning, 44, had just been told he had scooped a staggering &pound;7,864,529 by a National Lottery call handler when he made the comment.
In a transcript of the conversation which took place last month, an unfazed Philip replies ‘lovely’ when told of the giant windfall.
The former shift manager at a food processing plant, who handed in his resignation 48 hours after hitting all six numbers, remained remarkably calm despite hitting the big time.
During a Sunday morning telephone call, he told the handler: “I believe I have the winning jackpot ticket from last night’s lottery draw. I’m shaking like a leaf here.
“I’m speechless to be honest with you. I don’t know what to actually say. It’s just surreal. I think that’s the only word I can use to describe it.
“It’s all a bit of a dream.&quot;

He then bursts into manic laughter and says “thank you very much” before hanging up.
Philip, of Bo’ness, Falkirk, who has quit his job of 15 years, first learned he had won when family friend Sandra Easton, 45, called as he and partner Gina Meikle, prepared to go to bed.
Philip said previously: “We were getting ready to go to bed when we received the phone call.
“There was no sleep after we received that phone call, we stayed up most of the night.
“The phone call from Sandra was quite short and simple, it was ‘switch on your TV, you’ve won the lottery.’
“The first thing we did was switch on the TV and we saw the numbers staring at us on the screen.”
Gina, Philip’s partner of 11 years also quit her job at the same factory.
The couple plan to buy a much bigger home, and trade in their run-down Vauxhall Astra for a top-of-the-range Aston Martin.
Philip added: “We’ve not got any concrete plans but we will buy a new house and a new car.
“I went into work on the Monday morning as normal and first thing I did was hand in my resignation, as did my partner.”

