A BRAVE shop worker has told how he thwarted a raid - by sitting on a drug-crazed thief until police arrived.
Karanvir Johal, 34, was held at knifepoint during a terrifying holdup at a Subway sandwich franchise during which a he suffered a broken nose.
Michael Kane, 27, who was under the influence of drugs and carrying a knife, threatened the store worker and punched him in the face on 29 November last year.
The robber demanded the Edinburgh store's cash, but fearless Karanvir jumped over the counter and attempted to lock the thief in the shop.
Kane managed to prise the door open but dropped his weapon, before Karanvir then grabbed and forced him to the ground.
He then and sat on him while passers-by phoned for the police.
Kane was already wanted over two other violent robberies at stores in Edinburgh and was jailed on Wednesday for five years and three months at Edinburgh's High Court.
Karanvir, who was working alone in the shop, said it left him so scared he had moved job, changed his phone number, and even left the country.
The 24-year-old, who now works in a different branch of the popular food chain, said: &quot;It's good news he's been jailed.
&quot;I'm so happy, because I was so afraid to work in their afterwards.
&quot;When anyone came in and got too close to me, I thought they were going to punch me.&quot;
Kane had entered the shop in November last year and asked if Karanvir was working alone before pretending he had forgotten his money and went back outside.
He then returned with a knife in his hand and punched Karanvir in the face leaving him dazed and confused.
But as he tried to open the till, Karanvir jumped over the counter and ran out the shop, shutting the door and trapping Kane inside.
 

And despite his attempts to get back out, Kane was subdued and pinned to the ground until the police arrived.
Karanvir, who lives in Leith, was rushed to Edinburgh Royal Infirmary for treatment after the incident.
He said: &quot;I was bleeding so much. When I was sitting on him he was threatening me and saying that he had friends who would kill me.
&quot;He was trying to hit me with his legs. There were about 20 people watching all the drama outside on the street. I'm still seriously afraid.&quot;
Karanvir's partner Agnese, 22, said: &quot;I was in work when he called me from the hospital. It's still kind of scary. I didn't actually believe he had done that.&quot;
Kane, who was unemployed and homeless, admitted the robbery at Subway, and other robberies at several newsagents, in which he slashed a shopkeeper with a blade.
Judge Lord Burns praised Karanvir's bravery, and told Kane he would have been jailed for seven years if he had not pleaded guilty.
He also ordered Kane be kept under supervision for three years after his release.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

