A CARE home worker told a dying gran she was her lesbian friend before wiggling her tongue in her face.
Mary McDonald was giving 86-year-old Agnes Brown – known as Nancy – a bed bath when she carried out the attack, saying to her: “Lesbe-friends”.
The care assistant, 55 – who also said “tongues” to Nancy after the kiss – was found guilty of assault after a two-day trial at Stirling Sheriff Court.
But the mum-of-three was admonished due to her age, clean record and unemployment.
 She had denied a charge of sexually assaulting Nancy – who was paralysed from the waist down – at  Fairview Nursing Home, Bannockburn, Stirlingshire, on November 25 last year. 
 

Nancy had been receiving care for terminal cancer and died on Christmas Day – a month after the assault. After the case, her son Ross, 56, insisted it was just one of a number of failings in his mother’s care at the home.
He said: “In their charter they say they want to look after people with dignity. I don’t think my mother died with dignity.”
 Witness Mary Paterson, 53, a senior care assistant, had told the court she was giving personal care to  the bed-ridden elderly resident’s lower body while McDonald, of Stirling, was assisting. 
Mrs Paterson said: “Mary was laughing and joking with Nancy and said ‘lesbe-friends’. She made kissing noises and then said ‘tongues’ and was wiggling her tongue at her.”
She said she never saw a kiss but told prosecutor David McDonald that the term referred to lesbians and she felt the behaviour was “inappropriate”.
Nancy made a formal complaint about the incident two days later and was said to be upset in the weeks after the assault.
Detective constable Simon Alexander read a statement Nancy had given before her death.
It said: “Mary McDonald stood next to me and said ‘Let’s be Lesbians’. She put her hands around about me and kissed me on the lips.
“It was a big hard kiss, then she moved away and said ‘tongues’. I was a bit shocked.”
McDonald was dismissed from Fairview.
She told the court: “It’s just the way I am. I’m a very affectionate and caring person. Sometimes [I’d kiss them] on the cheek, sometimes a wee peck on the lips. It’s not the first time I’d given Nancy a kiss or a cuddle or both.”
Sheriff William Gilchrist believed the evidence of Mrs Paterson and Nancy’s statement but found no sexual motivation behind the offence and convicted McDonald of assault.
