POLICE have been ordered to apologise to Gail Sheridan for an interview in which they accused her of being schooled in IRA &shy;interrogation techniques.
In a humiliation for Police Scotland, the Police Investigations and Review Commissioner backed politician Tommy Sheridan’s wife in a series of complaints she made about the force.
It effectively overturns the findings of an internal probe and means Police Scotland will have to re-investigate the complaints raised by Gail.
She complained in 2011 about her treatment by Detective Chief Inspector Gavin Barry and Detective Sergeant Stuart Harkness of the former Lothian and Borders force.
She was angered that they &shy;questioned her about her Catholic faith and removed her rosary beads during the taped police interview at &shy;Edinburgh’s Gayfield Square police station.
They also asked her if she had been schooled in IRA interrogation techniques. Gail claimed they demonstrated “religious hatred” towards her.
 

Footage of the interview was broadcast on the BBC soon after her husband was convicted of perjury in 2010.
Despite being charged with perjury and theft, all charges against Gail, now 50, were dropped.
Gail’s lawyer Gordon Dangerfield described the initial police probe into Gail’s complaints as a “sham”.
 
During the inquiry, Barry and Harkness said they were right to quiz Gail about her faith because she chose not to make an oath to God before testifying at her husband’s 2006 defamation trial against the News of the World.
But court records showed Gail did swear an oath in court.
The commissioner has backed Gail’s claim that police didn’t properly &shy;investigate her complaints.
Both the complaint about the IRA claim and the questioning of her religion were “not dealt with to a reasonable standard”, the commissioner said.

The findings stated police must establish if the oath was important to the criminal inquiry, before “addressing these issues and apologising” to Gail.
Only the complaint about the removal of the rosary beads was rejected by the commissioner, who said the police’s reasoning was warranted.
Gail said: “I have always maintained I was subjected to unfair and oppressive questioning during that interview.
“The senior police officers tasked to investigate other senior police officers covered up for their colleagues rather than exposing their religiously-&shy;motivated abuse of power.”
Police Scotland would not say if any officers would be disciplined.
A spokeswoman said: “Police &shy;Scotland can confirm they have now received the commissioner’s report and are reviewing the contents.” Gail had not received an apology last night.

Try our quick news quiz below:

