A POLICEMAN is facing a prison sentence for battering a man he’d lifted for dodging a taxi fare – then trying to cover it up.
Ronald John MacBrayne, who later quit the force, left 22-year-old Alexander Carson with cuts and bruises after the late-night attack.
One colleague was forced to hit MacBrayne on the leg to protect the victim.
MacBrayne, 43, was called out after Mr Carson and friends ran away from a taxi driver without paying at the end of a night out in Oban, Argyll, in October 2013.
The constable and his fellow officers found them hiding in bushes. They agreed not to arrest them but to take them back to the taxi driver to pay their fare.
But tempers flared when Mr Carson opened a window in the back of the police car driven by MacBrayne.
He stopped, got out and grabbed Mr Carson, tearing his jumper then forcing him out of the car and repeatedly striking him on the legs and body with a baton.
Eoin McGinty, prosecuting, said: “The other constable – PC Hogg – put himself between the accused, who still had his baton in his hand, and Mr Carson and told PC MacBrayne to stop.
“PC Hogg attempted to get Mr Carson to his feet but the accused was standing on his leg. PC Hogg told him to get off him. He made no reply and PC Hogg hit the accused on his leg, again telling him to get off him.”
But MacBrayne wasn’t finished. On the way to the police station, he pushed his victim’s head against a window, banging his head off the door frame.
Mr Carson was left with grazes to his face, bruises to his right arm, shoulder, torso, leg and wrist.
MacBrayne appeared at Oban Sheriff Court on Wednesday to admit the attack and trying to create a false crime report.
He also pled guilty to attempting to pervert the course of justice by claiming Mr Carson had been violent and was trying to escape.
Father-of-two MacBrayne, who has no previous &shy;convictions, resigned from Police Scotland last April.
Ian Moir, defending, said MacBrayne, who now lives in Spain, had been under stress at work.
Sheriff Ruth Anderson QC deferred sentencing until next month. She said: “Custody will be uppermost in the court’s view.”
 Police Scotland Chief Inspector Marlene Baillie said: “The service will not tolerate officers who fail  to maintain the core values of respect, integrity and fairness.” 
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

