A THUG who left a teenager for dead in a horror attack was freed after an earlier assault while wearing an electronic tag.
 Vicious Brian Ramsay was on a tagging order when he battered Angus Gallacher , 18, leaving him with 13 skull fractures. 
And today, the Record can reveal he was also on a tagging order four months earlier when he attacked ailing grandad Iain Hutchison – but somehow, he kept his liberty.
Angus’s dad Henry, 57, said last night: “Ramsay should have been pulled straight into prison after the earlier assault.
“He shouldn’t have been free to attack my son. If you break one tagging order, you should never get one again.
“The system is failing massively. This happened to my son but everyone’s child is being failed here. It’s disgraceful.
“We knew he was on a tag when he did that to Angus but I can’t believe that he had attacked someone earlier while on a tag. How was this allowed to happen?”
Library worker Iain, 50, had survived a major heart attack just a year before he was subjected to an unprovoked attack by Ramsay, who he didn’t know.

He told the Record how the yob pounced as he was walking to a shop in Gorebridge, Midlothian. He had tried to avoid Ramsay, who was hurling abuse at passing drivers – but he couldn’t get away.
Iain said: “As I walked past, he said, ‘Alright, mate,’ and I said, ‘Aye, fine’. Next thing I knew he ran up behind me and hit me three times in the side of the face.
“I was shaken and shocked. Only the previous March, I’d had a particularly bad heart attack which kept me off work for six months and I was still weak from medication I was on.
“He said it was for looking at his niece. I said, ‘I have a grand-daughter the same age, what are you doing?’
“Then he ran in front of me and hit me twice in the nose. I couldn’t even lift my arms to defend myself. They felt like lumps of meat. I thought I was having another heart attack.
“I got to the shop and sort of came to. I tried to wipe the blood off my face with my T-shirt. It has left me scared to go out of my house.”
On Monday, Ramsay, 24, pled guilty to assaulting Iain on June 22 last year and was jailed for nine months at Edinburgh Sheriff Court. That latest stretch will follow on from the 30 months he is currently serving.
 

On April 16 last year, Ramsay was ordered to wear a tag for four months for road traffic offences. But Iain was attacked at 6.15pm – before Ramsay’s curfew began.
We revealed in February how Ramsay was put on another curfew on August 26 despite having cut off his electronic monitor on a previous occasion to go on a “bender”.
It was supposed to keep him off the streets between 9pm and 6am but late on October 26 – the day before the tag was to be removed – Angus found him lying in a garage forecourt in Gorebridge.
The kind-hearted Newtongrange lad helped him across the road but Ramsay turned on him and subjected him to a savage beating before dragging him to a nearby house where he battered him again. Angus, now 19, suffered 13 cranial fractures, three broken fingers, fractured ribs and a damaged ear drum.
 

Ramsay received 18 months for that assault.
Tory MSP John Lamont said yesterday: “This man should have been monitored more closely. Clearly tagging works for some criminals but not for others.
“I’d urge the Scottish Government to look into the issue as a matter of urgency before someone else is seriously hurt or killed.”
A Scottish Government spokes-man said: “Community sentences are more effective at reducing reoffending and reconviction rates are at their lowest level for 16 years.”
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

