WHEN Barbara Martin and her fiance James Borthwick struggled to get off the sofa, they feared married life would not be long and happy.
The most the self-confessed couch potatoes would lift was the remote to switch channels.
Now, after vowing to shed the pounds, the couple from East Kilbride are bodybuilding their way to their big day.
Barbara, 49, said: “I never liked doing cardio exercises or running on a treadmill. I got bored very quickly. I used to find the gym very intimidating too.
“But James used to do bodybuilding and encouraged me too. There is a challenge but the results were almost instant.”
James added: “I didn’t have any strength when I started but I’m able to lift a lot more now. It is great to be able to support each other.”
Barbara, who is 5ft 1in, has dropped three dress sizes and can fit into size 8 jeans for the first time since 1989. She now weighs 8st 6lb. James has lost more than 3st and now weighs 16st 9lbs.
 

The pair, who will tie the knot on June 6, are committed to their new way of life.
Barbara said: “As love blossomed, so did our waistlines. We both became complacent. I was trying to act like a good wife by making foods such as macaroni cheese and chips and steak pies.
“We were both working long shifts and it was easier to look for that type of convenience food. But married life will be totally different. Our whole lifestyle has completely changed.”
HGV driver James, 46, was shocked at how much his weight had crept up. After seeing his GP for a routine asthma check, he had his weight checked.
He said: “I was at my heaviest I had ever been at 19 and a half stone. My job involved sitting down all the time and I was a heart attack waiting to happen.”
The couple’s diet left a lot to be desired. They would gorge on crisps, biscuits and takeaways.
Administrator Barbara would sit beside James at night and munch chocolate and sugary snacks while watching television.
Barbara said: “I wasn’t happy. I would walk with my bag in front of my stomach. When people asked me to go on a night out, I would avoid it.
“I constantly had a sore back. I had to stop halfway up the stairs. We had become lazy. James was wheezing and coughing. Our bodies were much older than they should have been.”
 

Last November, the couple decided to battle the bulge and use their upcoming wedding as a focus. So they signed up with a personal trainer.
Now they are at the gym up to four times a week where trainer Graeme Ross pushes them to reach their goals.
Graeme, 21, provides the couple with a two-week plan to follow and alters it every fortnight.
They are able to choose the weights they use. Their sessions focus on different areas of the body such as chest and arms or legs.
The couple are surprised by the changes their regime has made.
James said: “My moobs are gone and I have pecs now instead. I wear a uniform to work so the other staff probably haven’t seen that much of a difference.
“But they’ll get a shock on the wedding day. I feel great. We know we are doing this so we can stay healthy for as long as we can.”
Barbara added: “I want James to be here forever. The road we were going down was so unhealthy and it’s only now, looking back, that we can see how much weight we were carrying.
“Now if we sit in front of the TV, we sit and talk and plan things. We have so much more energy.”
The couple will honeymoon in Turkey and Barbara plans to wear a bikini.
She said: “I always said I wouldn’t wear a bikini after the age of 50 but I’ve changed my mind. I’ll wear one on our honeymoon.”
Graeme, of Xercise4Less in East Kilbride, said: “They trained their backsides off. They were here four or five times a week.”

