THIS time last year, I was under-performing at school, going out every weekend and living a pretty standard teenage life.
Now, thousands of miles away from Glasgow, my whole life has been turned on its head.
I am the teacher, have no mum here to annoy and no nightclubs to go to.
At school, I found myself constantly bored and with no idea of what I wanted to do. So I signed up for Project Trust.
When people ask why I decided to volunteer the answer is not because I wanted to change the world. It’s because I wanted to find out what I enjoy doing.
I left Glasgow in August to travel to London to catch my flight the next day.
After a few hiccups – broken bag, lost jacket and missed train – I made it to London only to realise that my laptop, which was being donated to the school in Nepal, had been stolen.
After this reminder of one of the darker sides of living in the UK, I couldn’t wait to leave.
I arrived in Kathmandu buzzing. Everything goes at a million miles an hour. Rickshaws honk their homemade horns, taxis fly round tiny corners.
It was unlike anything I had ever seen. The smells, the food, everything was different – except for the doner kebabs.
A couple of days after arriving, we left the capital to go to our projects. Once we got to our valley, the last five days of travelling were forgotten as we saw a completely different side to Nepal.
Quiet, laid-back, scenic villages, full of character, surrounded by mountains covered in paddy fields.
My roommate Michael and I teach about 500 students. I naively believed the kids would understand my lessons. My first day sank that boat.
 

Being thrown in front of a class of 80 young people whose only English is “How are you?” is daunting. But they are the kindest and most hospitable people I have ever met.
Our village Jugjakola has no wifi and limited electricity. People from home often ask if I get bored. I can honestly reply that at not one point of my year so far have I been bored.
The biggest change in routine from Scotland is the food. Forget breakfast, lunch and dinner.
In Nepal it is daal baht for breakfast and daal baht for dinner. No lunch. Occasionally a daal baht on weekends.
My main success has been my class five. Every one of them passed their English exam, which is a great achievement as it was their worst subject last year.
One boy, Simrat, has secured a scholarship at a boarding school in Kathmandu which is an unreal achievement. I can’t take credit for this as he was already a very smart boy when I arrived but I would like to think I played a small part.


By leaving family and friends to come to Nepal for a year, I think it was hard not to grow up. My year here has been packed with highs and lows.
I have been deep in the Himalayas, seen elephants and rhinos on safari.
It’s not all been positive, though. I have had things stolen and rocks thrown at me.
The darkest time was the earthquakes. My village was not close to the epicentre of the earthquake. There wasn’t a huge amount of damage but the experience was horrifying.
The first earthquake struck on April 25. I was with two other volunteers in our house. The floor rumbled, the beds shook and the walls began to sway.
We were warned of an overdue quake in Nepal but never did I think it would happen to us. We jumped up and ran outside. We knew exactly what it was.
Everyone in the village stayed outside for the next two days, terrified. Everyone was down by the river round a big fire.
All that was spoken was the hourly update of the death toll and the names of ancient buildings that are now rubble.

Everyone was heartbroken. I was reported missing in the press at home.
I realised how awful this must have been for my friends and family as I saw first hand what it was like for people whose loved ones were actually missing.
Seventeen days later, just as things were settling down and people were starting over, another earthquake hit. School was evacuated and all the teachers sat together again in complete silence
There was total disbelief that a country already struggling to cope had been rocked again.
I was rushing around trying to get hold of my friends in Kathmandu. I could not imagine what it must have been like if I had children or family who were missing. The next day was my worst moment in Nepal.
 

I had just finished teaching a class and was walking into the playground when I felt the ground move. I turned around and saw the school building shake and rumble.
All of the students on the top floor started to flood out of their classes and try to make in down the stairs. This caused a massive pile-up and a small boy fell face-first down the stairs and was unconscious.
My roommate – a first aider – ran and got the boy away and treated him while I tried to free up this big pile-up and get the kids to safety.
We were sure the building was about to come down so we had to carry the youngest pupils out. Luckily the building did not fall and the boy is well.
After the second quake, there have been reports of a stress on the fault line west of Nepal and south of Kathmandu.
Being in the west, the people in Jugjakola are petrified. It will be some time before they feel safe again.
But I am certain that if any country can overcome this tragedy, it is Nepal.
Full of character, passion and patriotism, this country will recover and will be back to its vibrant and amazing self again.
There have been reports that other EU countries are repatriating their nationals. I am praying that the UK does not follow suit as I am not ready to leave Nepal yet.
This year has changed me and Nepal has completely taken over my life.

 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

