A MUM has called on McDonald’s to stop giving free helium balloons to children after the gas caused her son to collapse.
Junior Williamson’s parents say their six-year-old son was unconscious for almost a minute after inhaling on the gift.
Mum Jackie and dad Colin, of Bridge of Weir, Renfrewshire, claim Junior suffered minor injuries in a fall as he collapsed at McDonald’s in Linwood last Saturday.
Jackie, 41, said: “Junior was desperate to go to the play area of McDonald’s.
“Moments later, he was unconscious on the floor, his lips were blue and there was blood where he hit himself as he fell.
“He was unconscious for almost a minute, the most frightening minute of our lives.
“He had been playing with one of the promotional balloons placed around the restaurant for children to take away.
 

“I’m hoping McDonald’s will ban the balloons because kids don’t realise the possible consequences. They just think it’s funny to make their voices sound squeaky.”
Helium from balloons is often used to achieve a squeaky voice effect and celebrities – including TV host Paul O’Grady and actress Helen Mirren – have inhaled before speaking on TV shows.
Former One Direction star Zayn Malik was seen earlier this month performing a duet with fiancee Perrie Edwards, allegedly after inhaling helium.
But there have been deaths linked to inhalation, even in small quantities.
In 2010, Jordan McDowell, 13, from Newtonabbey, County Antrim, was found dead by her mother after inhaling helium from a balloon bought for her birthday.
In 2012, Duncan Sunderland, who was 12 at the time, nearly died after trying to mimic Donald Duck by inhaling gas from two balloons at his sister’s school party in Cranbrook, Kent.
The latest available figures, from 2013, show 62 deaths involving helium inhalation in the UK.
Public health specialist Dr Anne Wilson said: “Members of the public will be more familiar with the usually harmless party trick of inhaling helium from a balloon which gives a high-pitched squeaky voice.
“It must be recognised such activity can, on rare occasions, lead to adverse health effects and some deaths have been reported.”
The family’s lawyer Cameron Fyfe said: “This could have been a very tragic incident as helium can kill.
“Luckily Junior has recovered but Jackie hopes McDonald’s will take her call to withdraw the balloons seriously.”
McDonald’s said: “Having reviewed CCTV footage, both parents were with the child and watched him inhale the first balloon before catching him as he stumbled.
“He then proceeded to do the same with the second balloon near the play area, where unfortunately he stumbled and fell.
“Helium in our balloons is not intended for anyone of any age to inhale.
“Our team has been briefed to intervene if they see anyone inhaling the helium from our balloons to try to prevent anything like this from happening again.”
But Jackie said: “The balloons were on a stand at the rear of the food counter so our backs were to it when Junior grabbed one.
“He was able to pull the stopper out and inhale so quickly that we had no chance to intervene or prevent it.
“We gave Junior a right telling-off when we discovered what he’d done.
“Even after the telling off, Junior later ran over to the play area and he must have done it again.
 “I’m speaking out because I don’t think the majority of parents, never mind kids, realise  the potential dangers.” 

