A MUM who tortured then strangled an elderly woman in her home is to be sent back to her native Latvia.
Killer Tatjana Kurlankova, 30, last week lost her legal battle to stay in Scotland where she had been living in secret for the last 18 months.
A final appeal by her lawyers was thrown out at a special extradition hearing at Edinburgh Sheriff Court and Kurlankova – who had been working at a Lanarkshire potato factory – is expected to be deported back to Latvia in the next 10 days.
Her cover was blown when she was given a &pound;60 fixed penalty for drinking in a Glasgow street in January.
When officers later processed her details, they discovered an outstanding international arrest warrant for her.
The mum-of-two was jailed in 2006 for 10 years for the murder of an 85-year-old woman and a string of robberies in the city of Daugavpils.
 

She was part of a gang who subjected their frail victim to a 21-hour ordeal which saw them inject her with alcohol and mercury, force her to drink washing-up liquid and vinegar and repeatedly kick and punch her.
Kurlankova and her two male accomplices ran off with the woman’s &pound;930 life savings and four jars of jam when a relative disturbed them.
She fled Latvia in 2013, breaching strict parole conditions, and we revealed in March how she had set up home in Plains, near Airdrie.
Kurlankova’s legal team argued that sending her back to Latvia was a breach of the European Convention on Human Rights.
 Her lawyer Luke O’Curry told the Sunday Mail that she faces a hard time in prison – where inmates are held  eight to a cell – on her return. 
He said: “My client had settled peacefully here and was in gainful, full-time employment, paying her taxes and National Insurance contributions.
 

“It was her intention to make a new life for herself in the UK with a view to her family joining her in due course.
“The Latvian prison regime is markedly different to the conditions in Scottish prisons.
“The prison facilities have been the subject of a number of international monitoring committees which have reported unfavourably.”
Kurlankova, who does not speak English, faces at least 16 months in prison for parole violations when she returns to Latvia.
Before coming to Scotland, she also lived secretly in London and Great Yarmouth.

