 TRIBUTES have been paid to a childcare worker who was found dead in a Linwood flat. 
The body of 33-year-old Grace Kissell was discovered in Cowal Drive at around 2.30pm on Thursday after police had been called to the scene to investigate reports of a disturbance.
 Police confirmed a 41-year-old man has been arrested in connection with her death. 
Former Johnstone High School pupil Grace hailed from Kilbarchan and was a popular member of the local community.
She was known to hundreds of mums and dads through her Kilbarchan After School Care business.
Councillor Andy Doig, who represents Johnstone North, Kilbarchan and Lochwinnoch, is among those who met Grace through her work in the community and he has described her death as a tragic loss.
 He told the Paisley Daily Express: “I had the pleasure of meeting Grace and she was a really warm and lovely woman. 
“Her work with local children was invaluable and she will be missed by her friends and family, as well as by the youngsters she looked after, their parents and the hundreds of others whose lives she touched.
“My thoughts are with them all.”
Councillor Chris Gilmour, whose ward also includes Kilbarchan, added: “My condolences go to Grace’s family and friends and all who knew her.
“To lose her at such a young age is a tragedy.”
Grace previously worked at the upmarket Bowfield Hotel and Country Club, in Howwood.
 Staff at the hotel were too upset to comment when contacted by the Express yesterday. 
 Police cordoned off parts of Cowal Drive after the grim discovery was made on Thursday afternoon. 
Since then, officers have carried out an extensive investigation, including door-to-door inquiries in Linwood.
A spokesperson for Police Scotland said: “At around 2.30pm on Thursday, we received a report that a woman had died within a house in Cowal Drive.
“A 41-year-old man has been arrested and is presently being detained in police custody in connection with the death.
“A report will be prepared for the Procurator Fiscal.”
The man is expected to appear at Paisley Sheriff Court on Monday.
 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

