A WOMAN sexually assaulted by an Orange flute band pervert has told how he attacked her and her niece on the same night.
John Grimason , 35, was convicted this week of pouncing on the 40-year-old married victim in the back of a taxi. She counted him as a friend before the attack.
Grimason, who was president of the Coatbridge Prince of Orange Band, had earlier groped the woman’s 30-year-old niece.
“I trusted him and we were all friends. My husband was in the band,” the 40-year-old said through tears. “There was never any doubt in my mind about him before that night.
“Now I’ve got trust issues, I feel vulnerable and I don’t feel safe.
“I just don’t understand how a friend could do that to me.”
The woman had been drinking with family and friends at the band’s club hall in May last year.
Grimason, who is engaged to his partner of 10 years, offered to take her home in a taxi because she thought her niece had left without her. She didn’t realise the niece had fled after Grimason attacked her outside.
The 40-year-old said: “We were in the taxi and he just pounced from nowhere. I had a frozen feeling but I knew I just had to get him off me.
“The taxi stopped and he got out and walked over to his estate. I was saying, ‘Oh my God, oh my God.’”
The woman said she went home and paced around her kitchen, trying to process what had happened. She didn’t want to wake her husband, who was working the next day.
 

She rang her niece later because she was upset at being left at the club – only to find to her horror that Grimason had also attacked her.
The woman said: “When I told her what had happened to me she made this noise I won’t forget and said it had happened to her too.
“It was then I knew this was real. I said we had to go to the police station right away. I was terrified.”
The woman and her niece gave statements to police. Grimason was charged next day.
He denied all wrongdoing and accused the 40-year-old of being drunk that night, but was convicted at Airdrie Sheriff Court of attacking both her and her niece.
He was placed on the sex offenders register and will be sentenced next week. It’s understood the flute band have banned him for life.
The 40-year-old’s husband, who quit the band after the assaults, said: “To say I was angry is an understatement.
“One of the most galling things is the attitude of him and his family. He was at the court laughing and joking, smirking at us. Hopefully he’ll get the smile wiped off his face next week.
“He was always cracking jokes and everybody liked him. But when he’s got a drink in him around women he’s a different person.”
The woman has also had to endure the pain of Grimason’s supporters taking his side and branding her a liar. Many of his friends have backed him on social media.
She added: “I’ve lost everything through this. I had nothing to gain. I’ve not been to work in weeks because of the behavior of those close to him. But I felt I had to speak out to protect others.”

