JOHN Hannah, Alan Cox, Phil Jupitus, and Jeffrey Holland are just some of the big names appearing at the capital’s Pleasance venue during this year’s Edinburgh Festival Fringe.
From physical theatre and dance, political theatre, farce, mime and comedy, to musicals, children’s shows, puppetry and magic, 237 shows will be held in 23 venues from August 5-31.
Four Weddings and a Funeral star John Hannah appears in The Titanic Orchestra as a man claiming to be the great Houdini. In a separate production Alan Cox plays Houdini alongside Phil Jupitus as Arthur Conan-Doyle in Impossible.
If science is your thing, the Tangram Theatre Company takes on Darwin, Einstein and Curie-Sklodowska in three shows: The Origin of Species..., Albert Einstein: Relativitively Speaking and The Element in the Room: A Radioactive Musical Comedy about the Death and Life of Marie Curierespectively.
Superheroes and villains come to life in BLAM! described by Ricky Gervais as ‘one of the greatest shows I’ve ever seen’ while Spillikin by Pipeline Theatre Company is both heart-warming and funny and includes a real robot!
Adam Long’s Dickens Abridged brings to the stage Dickens’ most-loved characters while Laurel and Hardy are remembered in And this is my friend Mr Laurel starring Jeffrey Holland from Hi-De-Hi.
Hotel Paradiso is a mix between Fawlty Towers and Bates Motel while Hair Peace tells the story of a wig-user who embarks on a journey to locate the original (biological?) hair owners.
There’s opera, physical theatre and ballet as well as cabaret, magic and puppetry and Beardyman is back with One Album Per Hour – where audiences witness the creation of an album based on their suggestions while Jess Robinson: The Rise of Mighty Voice features the star of Newzoids, Dead Ringers and Little Voice in fine vocal form.
There are 35 comedy shows on offer with people like ventriloquist Nina Conti, the unstoppable Reg D Hunter, former MP Gyles Brandreth, Jo Lycett and Hal Cruttenden from Have I Got News for You, Alex Horne, and Felicity Ward.
There’s also a weekly free show in the famous Cabaret Bar where acts making their Pleasance debuts get the chance to be seen by a wider audience alongside a Comedy podcast and Pleasance TV.
Tickets from www.pleasance.co.uk or by phoning 0131 556 6550.
