A POLICE officer wrongly accused of data protection breaches is suing Police Scotland for more than &pound;1million.
 Constables Andrew Reid, 36, and former partner Amanda Daly, 34, were charged over claims they looked at police computer records after being attacked while off duty in 2009. 
 But the criminal case against them was thrown out earlier this year – after five-and-a-half years and 35 hearings. 
Reid has lodged a defamation claim against the force, as well as taking them to tribunal under the Equalities Act and the Public Interest and Disclosure Act.
If he is successful he could receive &pound;900,000 from the employment tribunal, and a further &pound;200,000 from the civil case.
Reid, represented by lawyer Aamer Anwar, says the amount sought at the tribunal covers his 14 years of service remaining, as well as his pension.
He also wants them to take into account loss of wages and loss of promotion.
The defamation case is based on his loss of reputation after the case when a false allegation became public.
Reid plans to leave the force after being kept on restricted duties because of the complaint.
He said: “It has been just shocking, my entire life has changed. My career has been ruined.
“I’ve not done a full day’s work in five years. As far as I am concerned I don’t have a job in the police.
“I am paid &pound;40,000 a year to sit and do nothing. I was always operational and worked in uniform – CID, surveillance, or public order duties – now I’m office based.
 “The day I made a complaint about the way they were investigating me, the professional standards committee moved me from my shifts, with no explanation. 
“They’ve subjected me to a horrendous amount of bullying and it continues.
“They treated me a certain way because of my complaints and as a result I suffered from a mental health condition.
“For myself and Amanda, for the past five years, it would have cost the police &pound;400,000 in wages paying us to do nothing.
“That’s enough money to employ 10 new police officers and pay them for a year.
 “When I was first moved to being office-based, I always asked not to be and to this day I would still ask them to let me out to get on with things. 
 

“Nothing has changed though.”
Police chiefs claimed the pair looked at police computer records after an incident when they were attacked while off duty and carried out an arrest.
But after the case collapsed Anwar told Police Scotland’s chief constable that the pair’s treatment had been “tantamount to a witch hunt”.
Reid, of East Kilbride, has since split from Daly and it is not known whether she plans to sue.
He claims the Scottish Police Federation have failed to back him.
He said: “I don’t trust them anymore.
“They pick their fights but if it’s anything they feel uncomfortable with then they just hang you out to dry.
“Since 2009 I have had two phone calls from the Federation.”
 Anwar refused to comment on the case. 
 But he said: “It is an absolute disgrace that Police Scotland have treated law-abiding officers in this manner. 
 “Nobody senior appears to be accountable for their actions. 
 “We have huge numbers of officers across Scotland who are presently on restricted duties or suspended on full pay, and a significant number are facing charges or misconduct on allegations that in any other public service simply wouldn’t even get through the front door. 
“And when a damning indictment of the police is delivered by judges in our courts, the police simply put their heads in the sand.
 “They seem to be a law unto themselves. The professional standards and the counter corruption unit have received little or no success in rooting out corrupt police officers. 
“What they have succeeded in doing is targeting and victimising innocent police officers and it’s got to end.”
 A Police Scotland spokesman said: “Constable Reid raised Employment Tribunal proceedings in November 2012 against his then Chief Constable and that those proceedings are current. 
“It would be inappropriate to comment further at this time.”

