 A WOMAN accused of snorting a dead mum’s ashes has denied taking part in the sick stunt. 
 Witnesses said they saw Natalie Hawes hoovering up the remains at a drunken house party. 
The 20-year-old confirmed there was an incident. But she added: “It didn’t involve me. I didn’t snort anyone’s ashes at all.”
 In yesterday’s Record, Jacqui Tierney told how she was devastated when she found out what Hawes had done to her mum Hilda’s ashes . 
 The disgusting antics were said to have happened at a party at Jacqui’s home in Dundee . 
Hawes claimed she has been threatened by friends and relatives of Jacqui and been forced to go into hiding over the claims.
Jacqui said the stunt happened two months ago. Hawes – who has been widely identified on social media as the “snorter” – claimed it was two-and-a-half years ago.
 

She also said she thought the ashes were a legal high substance called bubbles.
Hawes added: “They tried to tell me the powder was bubbles but I could see it wasn’t right. It didn’t look like what they said it was. It looked like ash out of an ashtray. I never took it.”
The Record spoke to one of Hawes’s closest friends. She claimed the 20-year had admitted to her that she had snorted the ashes “by accident” and “felt sick for days” afterwards.
But Hawes said her pal, who wished to remain anonymous, was mistaken.
She said: “My friend has obviously picked me up wrong.”
Describing the effect the scandal has had on her, she added: “I’ve actually moved out of Dundee because it’s f***ing up my life.
“How would you like that done to you? It’s all sh*t.”
Mum-of-four Jacqui, 51, kept the small amount of ashes in an urn guarded by a pet snake in her living room of her home in the Hilltown area of Dundee.
She said she had stepped out of the room when Hawes snorted the remains.
The stunt was witnessed by a friend, who only this week told the mum of four what happened.
Jacqui said: “How could someone do something like this? It is beyond belief that this happened in my own home.
“She just took the ashes from the top of my unit and started snorting them.
“My friend witnessed the whole thing and decided I should be told. I couldn’t believe what I was hearing. What would make someone do something like that?
“My mum meant the world to me and, apart from anything else, how could someone do something so disrespectful?”
 

After Hilda died four years ago, Jacqui buried some of her ashes with her dad in a local cemetery.
She had hoped to have jewellery made using the remainder.
Jacqui said: “Natalie has tried to contact me by phone but I haven’t seen her since.
“I don’t know what I would say to her but I know she will never set foot in this house again.
“I’ve considered phoning the police about it but what can they do? I don’t even know if it’s a criminal offence or if it’s theft.
“Even though she was drunk and trying to show off, it’s a horrible and nasty thing to do.
“I thought it would be nice to put some of mum’s ashes into a ring or necklace, but now there is nothing left to do that with.”
The family friend who witnessed the incident said: “I was shocked and disgusted. We had all been drinking and she just seemed to think it was fun and was showing off about it.
“It’s worse than jumping on someone’s grave.”

