BOMB bigot Neil McKenzie’s home has been searched by armed police over claims he has been making threats.
Officers swooped on the convicted criminal’s house after getting intelligence he had been involved in a new attempt at sick intimidation.
McKenzie, from Saltcoats, Ayrshire, was jailed for five years in 2012 for sending devices containing nails and explosives to then Celtic boss Neil Lennon and to other prominent Catholics in Scotland.
 The sectarian bigot was snared after a police device caught him saying detectives thought that  they were dealing with “daft hillbillies”. 
The Record understands police went to McKenzie’s house on April 7 and April 9 over allegations that he had threatened a member of the public.
An armed response team then raided his home and that of his 78-year-old mum on April 17 after getting a warrant.
Police confirmed to the Daily Record yesterday that two addresses had been searched in Saltcoats on April 17.
 McKenzie, 45, was last month banned for life by Rangers chiefs after a photograph emerged of  him smirking in the stands at Ibrox. 
He had bragged on social media that he was “buzzing” with excitement before attending Rangers’ clash with Queen of the South on March 10.
McKenzie and accomplice Trevor Muirhead, 47, were each jailed for five years in April 2012.
They sent crude devices to Lennon, former MSP Trish Godman and the late QC Paul McBride, as well as the office of an Irish republican group.
Charges of conspiracy to murder against McKenzie and Muirhead were dropped as the crude devices wouldn’t have gone off.
 

Their trial at the High Court in Glasgow heard McKenzie was motivated by vicious hatred of Celtic and Irish republicanism.
Police, who bugged a car used by McKenzie, heard the duo bragging about “planting” something outside a police station and “letting the f****r off”.
The first letter bomb was sent to Lennon in March 2011 after he had a row with Rangers assistant boss Ally McCoist at an Old Firm match.
Another package, found in Saltcoats, was a hoax device containing 248 nails and putty.
Another parcel for Lennon was found at a Royal Mail sorting office in Kirkintilloch, near Glasgow. It contained 43 nails, a timer, wires and a chemical substance.
A similar package was sent to Godman’s office in Bridge of Weir, Renfrewshire. She had been seen on TV wearing a Celtic top.
 A further parcel was sent to republican group Cairde Na hEireann’s Glasgow HQ but mail staff were unable to deliver it. The package contained what was believed to be the explosive  triacetone triperoxide. 
A nail-filled package addressed to McBride, who had backed Lennon after he was hit with an SFA ban, was intercepted at a postbox in Kilwinning.
The QC died aged 48 on a visit to Pakistan while McKenzie’s trial was going on.

 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

