 A WAR HERO who cleared hundreds of mutilated bodies from the road to Basra has backed our project to create a lasting legacy for Scotland’s soldiers . 
Gary Salmond - who was diagnosed with severe Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) after his tour in Iraq - has voiced his support for Voices of Veterans, which will preserve stories of military life and pass them down the generations.
The Record and Legion Scotland have joined forces on the scheme. Gary served in the Coldstream Guards for five years after he signed up aged 17 in 1988.
 The 43-year-old, from Livingston , said: “Speak to anyone who has been there and you soon realise you are not alone. It’s a hard path to walk at times so take any help you can get from well-established charities like Legion Scotland. 
“There is light at the end of the tunnel. It all just fell apart. It was as if I was back in Iraq. I was only sleeping a couple of hours a night. But I had kept my mouth shut like a typical, proud guy.
“I couldn’t figure out what was going on in my head. I had never heard of PTSD but after I was diagnosed I went to therapy. It went on for years.”
Father-of-three Gary did a five-month tour in Iraq during the first Gulf war. Just two days after his unit was involved in a five hour firefight he was sent on the road to Basra to clear dead bodies.
 

He added: “I remember last year around Christmas feeling so low. It can be hard to find happiness at that time of year. I had financial worries and didn’t feel as if I had anything left.
“Now things are better. It can flare up but it has settled down.”
 Just before his 18th birthday, following a stint of ceremonial duties at Buckingham Palace he was headed for Iraq. 
He said: “As ceremonial troops we were not really battle ready but I was fairly relaxed about it at the time. In a way it was exciting. When we got there we were guarding camps for POWs.
“Duties changed and we were off to the frontline. We ended up far left with the desert rats and had to take out an enemy stronghold. We had been lucky and survived the firefight with just bumps and bruises.
“After that we were full of adrenalin and really pumped up. Something had switched. When we started getting shot at I went from being Gary to being a soldier. It was real. The minute I pulled the trigger it all changed.
“After the adrenalin wears off you start to think more rationally about what just happened. When we cleared the bodies from road to Basra I realized nothing could have prepared me for that.
“We were doing that for three days and thought they decided to just leave us there but a chopper came in for us. We never talked about it after. I think I just suppressed everything.”
After he left the Army in 1993, he had no support and found it hard to settle into a job. Around 14 years later, he started suffering the severe effects of PTSD.
He added: “Some days I would struggle to get out of bed. It was only after I had an argument with my wife that I went to see my GP. I hit rock bottom. All those years I had just been sticking a plaster over it and it unravelled. It has been brutal at times but good to finally deal with it.”

