EDINBURGH University gaffer Dorian Ogunro has expressed his delight after his team recaptured the prestigious Queen’s Park Shield.
Ogunro’s Edinburgh side outclassed Aberdeen University in the final as they ran out 3-0 winners at Ainslie Park Stadium last month.
Speaking for the first time since their win he said: “We haven’t won the Queen’s Park shield in a few years and it’s wonderful to win it again.
“The shield is a fantastic trophy with a lot of history and I couldn’t be happier to get my hands on it.
“It’s a beautiful prize to win and everyone involved with the club is delighted to have it in our trophy case once again.”
The Queen’s Park Shield was first contested in 1921 after being donated to the Scottish Amateur Football Association by Queen's Park FC.
The competition is 94 years old and is viewed as the elite cup for university football within in Scotland
The Edinburgh University outfit have won the historic trophy a record 28 times and Ogunro is delighted that he has managed to guide his side to the title once again.
And he insists that winning the Queen Park shield is the perfect reward for his players after all their hard work throughout the season.
A season in which has seen his team finish 11th in the Scottish Lowland League as well as finish runners up in the BUCS Scottish Conference Division 1A.
He said: “To win any cup is great but to win a trophy with as much history as this one is extra special.
“The boys and I have put in a lot of hard work this season, more than ever before and winning the shield is the perfect reward.”
Edinburgh University regularly compete in the Scottish football’s fifth tier, unlike most university teams, and Ogunro believes playing in such a competitive league is what gave his side the edge in the final.
He said: “We play in the Lowland League with teams that are a lot stronger than most university teams and I think that’s why we won the final so easily.
“It was a very comfortably win for us, we never felt threatened.
“I never felt we were going to lose and we could have scored more than we did, we were in a different class than our opponents.
“We were in control for the full 90 minutes and we won the shield very comfortably.
“I am delighted for the players and everyone at else that is involved, I fully believe we deserved to win the shield.”
 Try our quick sport quiz below: 


