FORMER MP Eric Joyce has been found guilty of attacking two teenagers in an &quot;unjustified and unprovoked&quot; assault in a shop.
The 54-year-old attacked the boys aged 14 and 15 at News and Food Express in Chalk Farm, north London, on October 17, Westminster Magistrates' Court heard.
Joyce, the former MP for Falkirk, insisted he was performing a &quot;citizen's arrest&quot; but District Judge John Zani found him guilty of two counts of common assault.
&quot;Given my findings and your previous convictions, all options including imprisonment will be considered,&quot; the judge said.
 

Dressed in a blue suit, white shirt and blue tie, Joyce stared straight ahead and showed no emotion in the dock as the verdicts were read out.
Prosecutor Jon Swain told the court the former Labour MP attacked the boys after they walked past him as he stood by a drinks fridge.
After an &quot;exchange of words&quot;, Joyce grabbed the 14-year-old and knocked him to the floor, Mr Swain told the court.
&quot;Mr Joyce continued to hold on and wrestle (the boy),&quot; he said.
&quot;Mr Joyce was asking the shopkeeper to call the police and continuing to hold on to (the boy). At one point he held him by the neck.&quot;
 

Mr Swain said the second boy tried to help his friend but was elbowed by Joyce and winded.
When police arrived, Joyce claimed one of the boys had been aggressive and headbutted him, the court heard.
Joyce's attacks, which happened at around 9.40pm, were captured on the shop's CCTV camera.
&quot;It's the Crown's case that the actions taken by Mr Joyce constituted an unjustified and unprovoked assault on both boys,&quot; Mr Swain said.
&quot;Nothing either did warranted the level of violence demonstrated.&quot;
Delivering his verdict, Judge Zani told Joyce: &quot;In my view, you underplayed the violence you meted out to these young men and wanted the police called so as to justify your actions.
&quot;You readily told police, incorrectly, that (one boy) headbutted you for no reason.&quot;
Joyce was released on conditional bail ahead of sentencing on May 27.
He declined to comment as he left court.
Try your hand at our news quiz

