TRAGIC Sheku Bayoh’s former partner has paid an emotional tribute to him on Facebook.
Connie Barcik – the mum of Sheku’s older son – posted a picture of them in happier times with the caption: “You will live on in your boys.”
And she made an appeal for witnesses to get to the truth about her ex-lover’s death.
Sheku, 31, died while being arrested by up to 15 police officers in Kirkcaldy early on Sunday morning.
Connie, the mother of his three-year-old son Tyler, wrote on Facebook: “I need answers for my son, his brother and his family.
“The people we put our trust into to protect us has changed their stories too much in such a short time!
 

“Please if you seen or know anything please get in touch with either myself or Shek’s family.”
It is believed that Connie found out on Facebook about the death of her son’s father, who escaped wartorn Sierra Leone to come to Scotland. On Sunday, she wrote: “Thanks Fife police!! Last thing u want to hear through fb! Maybe they just expect me to learn through FB.”
A probe by the Police Investigations and Review Commissioner (PIRC) into the death is under way.
Initial reports indicate Sheku may have had a heart attack.
Sheku worked for British Gas and lived with his partner Collette Bell and their three-month-old son Isaac in a house yards from where he died.
 

Best friend Kufre Okoko told the Record on Monday that Shek was a “gentle guy who was making a future for his family”.
Scots human rights lawyer Aamer Anwar has now stepped in to help the family.
 
He said yesterday: “The family is extremely distressed and upset. They feel that they have been systematically lied to by the police.
“We are meeting with PIRC tomorrow and are likely to meet with the Lord Advocate soon to raise the major concerns the family have.
“The family want answers, are entitled to them and expect for there to be a thorough and impartial investigation.”
PIRC yesterday appealed to anyone who was in Hayfield Road, Kirkcaldy, near Hendry Road, between 7am and 8am on Sunday to come forward.
 

A spokesman said: “The PIRC is investigating … including the man’s contact with police officers prior to his death.
“The PIRC may be contacted on 01698 542929 or 01698 543291.”
Try our quick news quiz below:

