A mum has blasted healthcare workers after her baby nearly died.
Gillian Thomsen, from Dumfries, claims medics repeatedly “fobbed off” concerns about her newborn baby Jhae, who was unresponsive and jaundiced for a week after her birth.
After ten days the tot stopped breathing and had to be rushed to Dumfries Infirmary where she was resuscitated and diagnosed with a deadly form of infant flu.
Mum-of-four Gillian said: “The doctors told me if we hadn’t got her there when we did then she wouldn’t be here today.
“I kept calling the midwives at Cresswell to tell them something wasn’t right, she was jaundiced and wasn’t waking up for feeds.
“I just had a gut feeling but they were fobbing me off, saying she was just full of mucus and telling me there was nothing to worry about.”
She added: “On Easter Monday I noticed she was holding her breath so I called again.
“They asked if I was a first time mum, as if I was just being paranoid. They also said they were short-staffed so couldn’t come out to see her but they would come out two days later.
“I called NHS 24 who told me to bring her in straight away, when I got there they rushed her straight into intensive care and I was told she was about five minutes from death.
“I’m absolutely furious, ill with worry and I feel completely let down.”
Baby Jhae, who was born on March 26, was diagnosed with parainfluenza – a rare strain of the virus which can lead to death in infants and elderly people – and suffered a collapsed lung as a result of her ordeal.
After being resuscitated at DGRI, she was rushed to Yorkhill Children’s Hospital in an ambulance, where she remained on a ventilator for a week.
Gillian, 30, said: “That was a nightmare, it’s something no mum should ever have to go through.
“It felt like we waited days on that ambulance when really it was an hour.
“My partner John and I were nervous wrecks all the way up to Glasgow, it was soul destroying.
“Seeing her little body in the incubator was just awful.
“Then we had to go through the drama of taking her off the ventilator because there was a risk she would have heart problems or brain damage.”
Jhae is now back at home with her mum, dad John and siblings and is expected to make a full recovery.
Gillian added: “It’s been a complete nightmare but I’m just so glad she is here with us, she has finished her antibiotics now and she is feeling a lot better, it’s the rest of us who are still ill!
“This has been one of the most distressing experiences any of us have been through.
“I’m determined to raise awareness so other mums have the strength to speak up if they suspect there’s something wrong with their baby. Imagine if it was a young first-time-mum who didn’t have any support or the confidence to speak up. It doesn’t bear thinking about.”
NHS Scotland said they would not comment on individual cases.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

