IT starts with a prosecutor in a room, painstakingly examining dog-eared witness statements and random pieces of evidence relating to an unsolved murder from years before.
But once a Cold Case Unit investigation gets fully under way, it can involve a team of more than 100 specialist officers, lawyers and scientists using sophisticated techniques to finally trap a killer.
That’s what happened in the case of 16-year-old Elaine Doyle, from Greenock, whose murder in 1986 was the first CCU probe to go to trial. Last year, nearly 28 years after her death, John Docherty was found guilty of strangling her.
 And that’s what investigators believe will happen now in the case of Emma Caldwell, 27. The  passage of time, they say, should be no barrier to justice. 
The Lord Advocate, Frank Mulholland, has told police to reinvestigate the murder of Emma in 2005, seven weeks after we revealed a forgotten suspect.
Prosecutor Stephen McGowan, head of the CCU, calls it “righting the wrongs of the past”.
He said: “We’re taking the investigative techniques of 2015 and applying them to crimes that took place in a very different era.
“It starts with some hard graft, going through all the paperwork, looking at the witness statements, finding out where these people are in life now.
“It’s examining everything seized by police during the original inquiry including various things you could use to murder someone – guns, knives, ligatures.
“We’re looking for an opportunity to take the investigation forward with the expertise we have today, searching for a piece of evidence that might have some significance.
“We treat these crimes as if they happened yesterday. We come to work on a Monday morning and start working on a decades-old murder as if it happened at the weekend.”
McGowan, 41, has been prosecuting murders and serious crimes for 16 years – having previously been a defence solicitor.
 But he has been overseeing the Crown Office’s Cold Case Unit since it was launched by  Mulholland in 2011. 
 

Headquarters are the new Scottish Crime Campus at Gartcosh in Lanarkshire, the Scottish equivalent of the FBI nerve centre.
Here, a team of prosecutors work with police and forensic scientists to unlock the most notorious murders, crimes unsolved for decades.
They have an on-site lab where world-leading DNA analysis is used to reveal the secrets hidden in pieces of evidence that have been carefully stored for years.
He said: “We’re in no way saying any of the cases we investigate were bungled the first time. It’s just that what the investigators could do back then was limited by the tools they had.
“In 2015 we have a range of far more sophisticated tools. Even in the 80s, officers were still working with index cards.
“DNA was barely known of when Elaine Doyle was murdered. It certainly wasn’t around in 1977 at the World’s End murders.
“But because investigators were looking for clues like fibres and hairs at the time they were still taking care in the way they stored things. It shows great foresight because they could never have known that we’d be here in 2015 with a whole range of fancy DNA techniques at our disposal.”
Scottish investigators are using an advanced DNA technique that gives a far more accurate result, even pinpointing its exact location on a piece of evidence.
McGowan added: “It might allow us to say not only that someone had touched a ligature but where they touched it. There might be an innocent explanation for someone’s DNA to be present on a belt or a pair of tights but if it’s found in a knot, it becomes a more powerful piece of evidence.
“We’re bringing this kind of expertise to old cases to ensure anyone who perpetrated one of these crimes cannot rest easy.”
The CCU have a hitlist of unsolved crimes in their sights, although McGowan won’t reveal them for fear of jeopardising inquiries.
There are some which have already been announced, including the 1978 murder of Aberdeen geneticist Dr Brenda Page and the death of Emma Caldwell 10 years ago.
But there will be no quick conclusion to either of them.
 

He said: “It would be fair to say the Emma Caldwell inquiry is at its earliest stages. It is a long process.
“One of the difficult balances we have is to make sure we don’t give false expectations of hope to victims’ families.”
 If these crimes continue to haunt the public consciousness years later, it’s nothing to the  ongoing torment they inflict on relatives of the victims, those left to bear the agony of knowing that no one has ever been punished. 
And McGowan feels acutely that they deserve to see justice done, no matter how long it takes.
He said: “When we think there’s scope to reinvestigate a crime, we’ll speak to the families.
“They’re always glad, even though it can be painful for them and bring back difficult memories.
“Such terrible events can overwhelm their lives so they’re delighted by the chance to see justice done.
“We’ve had people approach us and ask we look at cases involving their loved ones. We always look to see if there are opportunities.
“Because the key thing is the commitment that justice has no sell-by date.
“Families deserve it, whether or not the murder happened yesterday or 30 years ago. That’s why we’re doing this.”
 The Sunday Mail revealed the new inquiry into the murder of Emma Caldwell last week.  Police had focused a 27-month, &pound;4million inquiry on four Turks, who were later cleared. 
But we revealed last month that another man, Iain Packer, had been interviewed six times before directing officers to woods in Lanarkshire where Emma’s body was found.
He admitted taking her there several times before but was never arrested or charged.
Assistant chief constable Malcolm Graham said: “Crimes many years ago can be reviewed for a number of reasons .
“Forensic opportunities or new intelligence can provide a fresh impetus.
“Outstanding cases are reviewed regularly to take advantage of those new opportunities which may deliver justice for grieving families.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

