SUZIE McGuire is preparing for her first big return to the airwaves on Saturday as she presents a show on BBC Scotland.
Suzie is sitting in for Tom Morton this Saturday on Morton through Midnight on Radio Scotland (10.05pm til 1) as Tom is currently off sick.
The gig will be the first time that the radio presenter is at the helm of a show since she quit her job at Radio Clyde 12 weeks before her husband stood trial for alleged domestic abuse offences.
After working at Clyde for 30 years she left in September last year telling bosses it was time for a change following 18 months of personal difficulties.
As she headed into the station to do her prep for the show this weekend, she told friends on Faceboook: “First day at school butterflies! — at BBC Pacific Quay.”
Suzie also admitted on the social network that she has deleted some of her friends from the site after realising they didn’t have her best interests at heart.

In a post entitled RANT ALERT!!!!! WARNING!!!”, she wrote: “I deleted a few “friends” this morning and it feels soooooo good!!! #liberating. It dawned on me that certain people in my life were delighted to ride the limo but wouldn’t take the bus!
“Hi Suzie darling, can you host our ladies lunch free of charge?” Hi babe, can you get us “T in the Park” tix? Hey McGuire, can you get me backstage at Calvin Harris????” “Suz, can you retweet my gig!????” “Can you plug my business on air?”
“Sadly, I mistook these people for friends. #mybad When myself and my children were down there, with nothing and I had a very genuine fear of the future as sole provider - these friends went missing in action.
“Harsh as it was, the last 2 years has taught me pretty much everything I need to know about what matters...and who matters.”
She also hinted that one of her ex-friends is someone in the public eye who failed to support her at her time of need.
She added: “They say at the end of your life, you can fit your true friends in a phone box...and it’s true #cutthemloose #fake #losers #springclearout #smile (one of them is “high profile” and actually said these words; “In view of the press interest I need to distance myself just now”!???? Hilarious, especially when what I know about you would make the front pages!!!! I would never do that, but it’s private mirth ) Don’t mistake my kindness for stupidity.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

