ANGELA Constance has vowed to give a voice to Scotland’s victims of institutional child abuse.
The Education Secretary said “dark secrets of the past” must be exposed after launching a huge probe into the issue.
On Thursday, Constance announced that QC Susan O’Brien will lead a four-year nationwide inquiry with power to compel organisations and individuals to participate.
O’Brien, who headed up the inquiry into the failings which led to the 2001 death of Edinburgh baby Caleb Ness by his own father, will hear testimony from victims abused while in care.
Cases will include those from church-run homes and residential schools such as St Ninian’s in Gartmore, Stirlingshire.
Allegations dating from September 1964 will be examined from children’s homes run by charities Barnardo’s and Quarriers as well as council-run homes and residential schools.
There will also be evidence from children who were fostered.
One of the boldest moves is the proposed removal of Scotland’s strict three-year time bar rule which has prevented thousands getting justice in the civil courts, even when abusers were convicted.
Almost 1000 cases were dismissed by the House of Lords in 2008 because of time bar, a decision described by victims as a “victory for the devil”.
 

Survivors are determined the Government should still find a way to have those cases heard.
Constance said: “I want to see justice done. I want survivors to have their voices heard and I want Scotland as a country to face up to its past.
“We let countless children down and I’m determined to ensure that never happens again.”
The minister was deeply moved by the bravery of victims who opened their hearts to tell painful stories.
She said: “There’s a lot that saddens me about the past. Whether it’s local or national government, the police, court service or care providers, I believe all have to face up to their responsibilities or past failings and co-operate with the inquiry.”
Constance said work had still to be done to establish a compensation system for victims.
She said: “I’m very conscious of a range of views from survivors. Reparation is very important. It’s also what led me to address two particular issues, time bar and access to civil justice. There are complexities to face. But I want survivors to know we’re in the business of opening doors, not closing them.”
The minister said the inquiry will not establish guilt or innocence. She added: “That is for the justice system. It will be about identifying where there has been systemic failure to protect children in care.
“We’ll ensure the process is fair and robust and that it does not cut across the work of the police or court service.”
The new National Child Abuse Investigation Unit have established a centre of excellence to investigate historic cases as well as new.
A &pound;14.5million survivors’ fund will provide practical help and access to services.
The minister added: “We’re on a journey and it will be a long journey. I believe starting the journey shows our commitment to getting it right.”
Constance’s words were welcomed by abuse survivor David Whelan.
The 55-year-old was one of two boys abused by John Porteous, dubbed the Beast of the Bell Tower after being jailed for molesting the pair while a Quarriers house father in the 1970s.
David said: “Angela Constance is the first politician who has listened to us and done something about it.
“I applaud her bravery and determination for tackling what is a very difficult and complex subject.
“Former First Minister Jack McConnell apologised for what happened to all of us in 2004 but nothing was done to make the changes that were needed to bring us to where we are today.
“I hope scrapping the time bar will encourage the organisations responsible for children abused in their care to settle cases out of court rather than drag victims through an adversarial procedure which can only cause even more damage.”
Chris Daly, 50, from Glasgow, who claims he was abused by nuns in the 70s while at Nazareth House children’s home in Aberdeen, said: “We’ve waited far too long for this moment but thanks to her we are moving forward.
“The time for silence and secrecy has long gone – we need openness and truth and I feel now we have a chance of that.”
Lawyer Cameron Fyfe, who represents hundreds of victims, said: “I’m heartened by the Government’s commitment to scrapping time bar, which has prevented thousands getting justice in the civil court.”

