A DRUG dealer once caught selling heroin in a church has turned his life around and now helps other addicts to quit.
John Wilson, 32, says he would be “in prison or dead” if it weren’t for the support from St Andrew’s Church in Arbroath.
Now the former heroin and amphetamines addict has been clean for more than five years – and got married in November to social worker Kirsty, 27.
He works as a senior support worker at a Christian homeless project in Rotherham, Yorkshire, where he helps other addicts.
He has also carried out &shy;humanitarian work in Monte&shy;negro and Sierra Leone.
At his lowest ebb, John – who has spent time in jail for various drug offences – was caught red-handed at the Havilah outreach group run by Reverend Martin Fair, from his Arbroath parish.
But instead of calling police, John says he was offered the chance to kick drugs for good.
 

Edinburgh-born John – who moved to Arbroath to try to clean up his life when he was 21 – said: “Up until that point in my life I had been battling many life issues, one of which was drug addiction.
“At the very worst point of my addiction I found myself homeless, sleeping rough on the streets of Edinburgh under bushes or in doorways.
“I was left in the lowest place a man could be – begging on the streets and eating out of bins.”
During his last court &shy;appearance in 2008, a judge told him about the Havilah project.
John said: “I did go to the church – but I wasn’t looking for the help the judge told me to get. I was actually there to meet a lad to sell him drugs.
“It was then I was met by a man called Jim who caught me red-handed.
“But what he did was totally the opposite to what most people would have done.
“He didn’t ban me or phone the police but instead he told me what I was doing was wrong, and that this place was here to help people like me. He went on to say that I was welcome in the church any time but my drugs weren’t.
“If I hadn’t met Jim at that time I know for a fact that I’d be serving a long prison sentence or I’d be dead.”
 

John relapsed twice into addiction but finally found the inner strength to battle his demons and has now helped scores of other people through rehab.
He said: “Because of my past, and experiences of life on the streets, I have been able to use my story of how God has changed my life to give hope to others.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

