FAMILY and friends of two men who died in a plane crash were struggling to come to terms with the tragedy yesterday.
 Garage boss John MacKinnon, 53, and Jet2 pilot Andy Thompson, 37, were on a short trip from Inverness to Dundee when their four-seater vanished off the radar four miles from their destination on Sunday. 
After a four-hour search, the wreckage of the Beechcraft 55 Baron was spotted among trees on a hillside near Abernyte, Perthshire.
 Last night, John’s heartbroken regular flying companion Aitken Paton said: “We’re at a loss to  understand what happened to them. What could have gone wrong with a twin-engine aircraft and a commercial pilot?” 
Locals said the weather in the area was “atrocious”, with fog, driving rain and high winds.
But Aitken, who believes the men were taking the plane to Dundee for scheduled maintenance, said: “Andy was fully qualified to fly in bad weather.”
Father-of-four John, who also leaves behind his wife Ann, ran his own car repair business, George Street Motors, in Dingwall.
Highland Aero Club president Aitken said: “He was a good friend but I didn’t know Andy.
“John was a larger than life character in this area, a big part of the flying scene. He’s a big loss.”
Local councillor Margaret Paterson said the town was “numbed” by the news, adding: “John’s a long-established businessman in Dingwall and highly thought of.
“You couldn’t meet a nicer person and it’s just a tragedy.”
Andy, from Chester, was a first officer with Jet2 who was based at Manchester airport.
A spokeswoman for the airline said: “We are terribly saddened to hear the news about Andrew.
“He will be greatly missed by everyone at Jet2.com.”
Police Scotland said: “Officers continue to liaise with both families and they have requested that their privacy is respected at this difficult time.”
An Air Accidents Investigation Branch team arrived on the scene yesterday to start their probe into the cause of the crash. Their report isn’t expected for nine months.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

