NICOLA Sturgeon has denied her Government intends to stage a second referendum - as she meets the Prime Minister in Scotland today for crunch talks following the SNP election landslide.
David Cameron flies into Scotland amid reports that the Scottish Government would defy Westminster and hold a fresh vote on independence.
The PM has already ruled out a second poll, despite the SNP capturing almost every Scottish seat last week - and Sturgeon repeatedly stating that her party was fighting the General Election campaign on the issue of austerity, not independence.
However, this week a senior SNP source said they would be prepared to defy Cameron and hold a so-called ‘indicative’ referendum - with no basis in UK law.
The high-ranking figure claimed a “precedent” for Scottish people voting on their future had been set by last September’s failed independence vote.
The high-ranking figure insisted public opinion in Scotland has shifted significantly since last year's ‘No’ vote and claimed the SNP would win a second poll “were it held tomorrow”.
“We would get between 50 and 60 per cent,” the source predicted.
‘Indicative’ - or non-binding - independence referendums have previously been held in Spain, where Catalonia is determined to break free from the rest of the country.
The Spanish Government has denounced such polls as meaningless and illegal.
But a spokesperson for the First Minister moved to dismiss the report, saying: &quot;These claims are totally wrong – there are no such plans.
&quot;The position is crystal clear – the general election was not a mandate for another referendum. And there will only be another referendum if and when the people of Scotland back such a proposal at a Scottish Parliament election.
&quot;It is not for David Cameron or any other single politician to try and dictate what Scotland's future should be – it will always be in the hands of the people.”
 

Nontheless the reports will add spice to Sturgeon's meeting with Cameron today in Edinburgh, already set against SNP demands for more power for Scotland following the UK vote which gave them all but three of Scotland's 59 seats - and the Tories an overall majority at Westminster.
Sturgeon said Scotland had “voted for change” and said the PM must now offer more than those recommended by the Smith Commission on Scottish devolution earlier this year.
And yesterday Holyrood's cross-party devolution committee backed that assertion, saying Cameron's current plan - drawn up be the previous Con-Lib Dem Coalition government - comes up short on the Smith proposals.
Sturgeon said of the PM: “His Government cannot act as if it’s business as usual in Scotland.”
Today Cameron will pledge to deliver new powers to Scotland as promised and work with Sturgeon “for the benefit of all the people of Scotland”.
“I am here to underline my commitment to our United Kingdom and Scotland’s important place within it,” the PM will say.
“That means remaining true to the promise we made to make Scotland one of the most accountable and powerful devolved parliaments in the world.
“It is the duty of the First Minister and myself to respect each other’s roles and responsibilities and to work together.”

