HIBS star Jason Cummings has told Twitter trolls to stop tormenting a girl of 15 filmed having sex with a man at a party where he was a guest.
Speaking for the first time about the sordid incident, the 19-year-old striker said: “I really feel for the girl and her family. She got a lot of abuse on Twitter and social media and that was so unfair.
“I really want that to stop. She doesn’t deserve this.”
Jason went to the house party in Edinburgh to watch the “Fight of the Century” between boxing superstars Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao on pay-per-view TV in the early hours of May 2.
He had no idea that several other people at the party filmed the girl having sex with an older man in a bedroom.
Video was later shared on Twitter and the girl suffered a barrage of abuse.
Jason was also targeted after his name was linked to the incident. The Record did not name him when we covered the story because we knew he was not involved.
A man of 18 has been charged with a sexual offence and released pending further inquiries.
 Police are looking for the people who filmed the incident, and for those who put the footage online. 
Boxer Sean Spence, 22, was detained by officers yesterday and charged with voyeurism after allegedly recording the incident on his phone.
Spence was freed without appearing in court after prosecutors studied a police report. The Crown Office said: “The case remains under consideration.”
Jason spoke exclusively to us from La Manga in Spain, where he is training with his team-mates for their playoff bid to get back into the Premiership.
 

He said: “The first I became aware of the video was on Twitter. It was nothing to do with me.
“Everyone’s sympathy must be with the young girl and her family.”
 Jason has been carpeted since the party by Hibs manager Alan Stubbs, chief executive Leeann  Dempster and head of football operations George Craig. 
He said: “I’ve had a lot of support from the club. They sat down with me and gave me a lot of advice.”
Stubbs told reporters bluntly this week that it was time for Jason to change his lifestyle.
And the star agreed, saying: “I need to watch what I’m doing and be aware of my responsibilities, knuckle down a wee bit and concentrate on my football.
“There are young kids who are looking up to me and that makes you want to be a good role model. It makes you want to work hard and set a good example.
“I’m working hard on my football and you’ve got to make sacrifices. I want to do as much as I can to have a good career.”
Jason said mum Tracey had supported him since the scandal broke, and added that he was glad to be away from Edinburgh and focusing on football.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

