DETECTIVES are probing a savage late-night knife attack on a dog walker.
The victim was walking two of his dogs at Ferguslie Walk, Paisley, when he was stabbed twice in the back and slashed in the head by an assailant.
Police are treating the incident, which happened at around 11pm on Sunday, as a serious assault and have described it as a “despicable attack on an innocent man.”
They are linking the attack to an earlier incident, where a man and woman had been involved in a disturbance moments before the 44-year-old dog walker was knifed.
Cops believe their suspect was involved in the row prior to the attack on the innocent bystander, and they are appealing for witnesses to help trace the knifeman.
DS Ross McDonald of Paisley CID, who is leading the inquiry, told the Express: “This was a despicable attack by an unknown male on an innocent man who was out walking his dogs.
“It appears there was no motive whatsoever for the attack. We are appealing to members of the public, or to anyone who may have information, to come forward and help us catch this man.
“We believe the male responsible had been involved in a disturbance with a female, prior to the attack on the man walking his dogs.
“We will be stepping up patrols in the area to reassure residents we are doing everything we can to catch the person responsible. Police are treating this as a serious assault.”
The victim was taken by ambulance to the Royal Alexandra Hospital in Paisley where he received stitches to wounds in his body and head.
He was released after treatment but has been left badly shaken by his ordeal.
Officers said a cyclist who was wearing a yellow high-visibility vest may hold the vital details about the incident, as he was seen in the area at the time of the attack.
Police would also like to trace the driver of a light-coloured car and another motorist at the wheel of a dark-coloured car, who may have seen the attack. Police are appealing for these people to come forward as potential witnesses.
Cops yesterday cordoned off the scene of the attack and carried out forensic analysis.
Officers said they are working without a description of the suspect, because the victim was unable to provide details of his attacker.
However, cops are scrutinising CCTV images of the area, canvassing witnesses and carrying out door-to-door inquiries.
Anyone with information is urged to call Paisley Police on the 101 non-emergency contact number.
Alternatively, they can ring CrimeStoppers on 0800 555 111 where anonymity can be maintained.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

