A POPULAR young skipper has died after being seriously injured in a boat accident.
Jamie Kerr, 25, worked for Inverlussa Marine &shy;Services, who operate a mussel farm at Loch Spelve, near Craignure, on the isle of Mull.
 Jamie, who came from the Oban area, was on board company vessel the Carol Anne, when the tragedy happened. 
A police spokesman said they were informed of the accident on Thursday.
An investigation is now under way into the &shy;circumstances of the &shy;accident. No further details have been released.
Inverlussa mana-ging director Ben Wilson said last night: “Everyone at Inverlussa is devastated by this loss.
“Jamie was one of our brightest and best.
“Our thoughts and prayers are with Jamie’s family and loved ones who have suffered a huge and sudden loss.
“We will do everything we can to support them at this very difficult time.
“We will also be supporting our crewman, Jack Baker, who was on board the Carol Anne with Jamie when the incident happened.”
He added: “Everyone is devastated by this loss.
 “Jamie was an extremely popular and hard working member of our team, he loved the sea and was a very able skipper. 
“The authorities are now investigating the exact circumstances of what happened on the Carole Anne. We will assist this investigation in every way we can.”
 A Police Scotland spokesman said they were informed of the accident on Thursday morning and added: “Emergency services attended however, the man was pronounced dead around 1pm. A report will be submitted to the Procurator Fiscal.” 
A joint investigation is now under way between Police Scotland and the Marine Accident Investigation Branch (MAIB) to establish the exact circumstances of the accident.
No further details of what happened have been released and an MAIB spokesman would only say: “MAIB is investigating the incident.”
Inverlussa Marine Services boss Mr Wilson said in a statement on the company’s website that the firm would assist the investigation in every way it can.
The firm supplies farmed mussels to all of Scotland’s leading supermarkets.
