VILE columnist Katie Hopkins has struck once again by mocking First Minister Nicola Sturgeon and SNP candidate Alex Salmond on Twitter.
The notorious rent-a-gob labelled Salmond &quot;Britain's fattest man&quot; as she expressed her urge to &quot;thump&quot; both politicians &quot;in the face with a frying pan&quot;.
Hopkins, who is already reviled in Scotland, tweeted: &quot;Oh Nicola Sturgeon, the lines are mergin', I want to thump Britain's fattest man, &amp; you in the face with a frying pan.&quot;
 
Oh Nicola Sturgeon, the lines are mergin', I want to thump Britain's fattest man, &amp; you in the face with a frying pan.

In her latest scathing attack, the Tory-loving star continued her Twitter rant by hitting out at Sturgeon's SNP. 
She tweeted: &quot;How many seats do the English get in the Scottish Parliament?&quot;
 
How many seats do the English get in the Scottish Parliament?

Just minutes later, she added: &quot;When SNP militia are voting on ENGLISH lives, ENGLISH taxes, ENGLISH law, what say do we have in theirs?&quot;
 
When SNP militia are voting on ENGLISH lives, ENGLISH taxes, ENGLISH law, what say do we have in theirs?

Turning her attention to last year's independence referendum, Hopkins wrote: &quot;New meaning of referendum: as many questions and votes as it takes until the SNP get their own way, Democracy my a***.&quot;
 
New meaning of referendum: as many questions and votes as it takes until the SNP get their own way, Democracy my arse.

 Earlier this year, the controversial star compared Nicola Sturgeon to the deadly Ebola virus in an article pitting the First Minister against David Cameron and Ed Miliband. 
The Tory-loving troll, wrote: “I would avoid Sturgeon in the way one seeks to avoid Ebola. By taking extreme measures.
&quot;If this involves full-scale nuclear-biological-chemical warfare gear that is a price I am willing to pay for avoiding the social anthrax that heads up the SNP.
&quot;I think politics is rather like the Voice. Surprisingly ugly people make it through to the end phases of the competition.
&quot;Nicola is a good example of this. One can only hope she doesn’t go ahead and win the bloody thing.&quot;

Hopkins has form when it comes to making sick jokes about ebola and Scotland.
The Z-list celeb was branded disgusting and racist for an outburst she made about brave Scottish nurse Pauline Cafferkey who came down with the lethal bug after volunteering in west Africa.
Hopkins, who is famous for being a losing contestant on The Apprentice, said: &quot;Little sweaty jocks, sending us Ebola bombs in the form of sweaty Glaswegians. Just isn't cricket. Scottish NHS sucks.&quot;
 In March, Hopkins became the subject of a police probe after mocking a disabled reality TV star who was born without an anus . 
Furious former stripper Stuart Andrews reported Hopkins to police for posting a vile comment mocking his potentially life-threatening condition and calling him an “a**ehole”.
Hopkins tweeted to her followers: “He doesn’t have an a**ehole but makes up for it by being one.”

