HUNDREDS of people packed a church to say farewell to young racing driver Keir Millar today.
 The youngster was injured in an accident at a racing track in Lochgelly, Fife on May 9 , before dying in hospital two days later. 
It was standing room only in Lochmaben Church near Lockerbie, where a service was held to celebrate the young racer's life.
About 750 people attended the service before going to nearby Lochmaben Cemetery to lay him to rest.
There was even a bus-load of people who came down from Lochgelly race track to pay their respects to the racing champion.
Before the service, Keir's brother Brandon Millar posted on his Facebook page: &quot;Well today's goin to be one of the hardest days of my life, still cant believe that I am going to have to lay my little bro to rest, he will have a great send off, race in peace my superstar, will always love you xxxxx.&quot;
 

Only one hymn was sung during the service - All Things Bright And Beautiful.
Friends and family members spoke of their love for Keir and talked about his life.
Painted on the small coffin was a chequered flag along with a picture of Keir and his racing car.
And a framed photograph of the 11-year-old along with one of his trophies was carried out as his coffin was taken to the waiting hearse.
After the short service people left the church in silence, before lining the streets around the hearse to watch it make its way to the cemetery.
Tearful friends and family hugged each other as they watched the vehicle departing and started to make their way to the cemetery.
Flowers in Keir's racing numbers - 143 and 643 had been placed around his coffin in the funeral car.
Mourners had been requested to wear what they wished to the service - with several people, including Keir's young friends and racing colleagues, opting for racing overalls.
Others wore racing branded t-shirts, while some wore tops with Keir's racing number 143 on them.
 

Donations collected at the funeral were given to the Royal Hospital for Sick Children, where Keir was treated following his accident.
The youngster took part in the Ministox racing series and last year won the Ninja Kart Championship in England.
He came from a famous stock car racing family.
Following his death fellow racers were asked to paint their bumpers gold as a mark of respect to the youngster.
Tributes also poured in on social media to the much loved racing driver.
