AN elderly hospital patient hasn’t eaten properly for three months after staff lost his false teeth.
 Anthony Jaconelli was recovering from a leg amputation at Dumfries Infirmary when his dentures disappeared. 
Despite an exhaustive search by family and staff, the gnashers have never been found.
And Mr Jaconelli’s outraged son wants to know why the 79-year-old is still waiting for the health board’s dental services to give him a new set – despite still being a patient at DGRI.
Marco Jaconelli said: “I’ve been told dad is getting all the nourishment he needs through his food but he’s having to choose meals from the hospital menu that he can eat, not what he wants to eat.
 

“Have you ever tried sucking on a piece of lettuce for 20 minutes?”
 Mr Jaconelli junior, 53, lives in Glasgow and has been travelling to visit his dad four times a week. 
He claims that a doctor at the infirmary even offered to pay for a new set of teeth for Mr Jaconelli out of hospital funds, but was told the Lochmaben man would need to “wait in the queue like everyone else”.
His son said: “It’s outrageous. My dad’s got one pointy tooth sticking up that’s caused a hole to form on his tongue. I appreciate that with dad being moved from ward to ward since he was admitted to hospital that things might be misplaced. The hospital staff have been fantastic – it’s their dental colleagues I’ve got an issue with.
“Trying to speak to a dental manager is like banging your head off a brick wall.”
After months spent trying to get his dad new teeth, Mr Jaconelli contacted his solicitor in a last-gasp bid for help but is still no further forward.
“Luckily my dad has me to fight his corner, but what about all the other elderly patients who have nobody to speak up for them?
“One of the doctors even offered to pay for the teeth from hospital reserves if it meant dad would get seen to faster but they won’t prioritise. He’ll be in hospital for at least another two months so something really needs to be done but I don’t know where to turn.”
 A spokesperson for the NHS said: “We adhere to the highest standards of patient confidentiality and as such we cannot comment on individual cases. 
“However, we would urge Mr Jaconelli to contact us so we can resolve this issue promptly.”
 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

