A BROTHEL boss dubbed Madam Moneybags has been forced to hand over &pound;1million of her immoral earnings.
Margaret Paterson was jailed for five years in 2013 after being found guilty of running a brothel and an escort sex business from a flat in Edinburgh’s west end.
And the 63-year-old, who believed her fortune was beyond the law, saw it snatched away yesterday.
It was a humiliating fall for a woman who lavished herself with designer shoes, handbags and jewellery.
Paterson’s ex-lover and business partner Robert Munro was also handed a confiscation order at the High Court in Edinburgh.
And the police officers and prosecutors behind the sleazy pair’s downfall said it showed the success of their strategy of targeting dirty money.
The confiscated money will be used to support community projects across the country.
Detective Chief Inspector Kenny Gray said: “These orders are some of the largest in Police Scotland’s history and send out a very clear message to organised criminals we will do everything in our power to ensure they do not benefit from illegal gains.
 

“If criminals believe their money is safe once a sentence has been handed down, they are wrong.
“We will work tirelessly to ensure we can reclaim criminal earnings and put them to good use in towns and communities across Scotland.”
Lindsey Miller, the procurator fiscal for organised crime and counter-terrorism, said: “Criminals now not only find themselves facing lengthy prison sentences but they are also subjected to extensive financial investigations by our specialist team of forensic accountants.
“They find that criminal earnings they thought safe are uncovered.”
Paterson lived the high life on her profits from the dingy brothel in Grosvenor Street.
The vice girls considered well-spoken Paterson, who grew up on a farm in Midlothian, as the boss with Munro her second in command.
She was known to give her hookers advice on domination for clients who wanted to be submissive.
Despite battling cancer in the 2000s and caring for her dementia sufferer mother, she still turned up three or four nights a week at the brothel, insiders said.
Paterson was proud she paid taxes to HRMC from the business – but the hoard of luxury clothes and handbags police found in her flat showed an insatiable lust for cash.
They found a pile of 400 designer handbags, 100 boxes of unworn designer shoes and receipts from shops including Louis Vuitton, Harvey Nichols and Mulberry.
 

Detectives also retrieved more than &pound;200,000 in cash alongside designer jewellery. Some of the jewellery, including a &pound;4320 Versace watch and two rings worth more than &pound;1400 each, was still in its boxes.
One of Paterson’s vice girls later claimed she was beaten, paid a pittance and forced to take Class A drugs. She also said Paterson threatened her when she tried to get out of the business.
The court heard yesterday Paterson’s other assets included a property portfolio in Edinburgh and bank accounts.
Mark Moir, for Paterson, said it was agreed the benefit from her crime was &pound;1million and a confiscation order was made for that.
Judge Lord Boyd of Duncansby gave her six months to pay.
Munro’s counsel, Tony Lenahan, said it was accepted the benefit from his criminal conduct was &pound;544,601 and a confiscation order was made for &pound;96,836.
Prosecutor Barry Divers told the court it represented his “realisable assets”.
 

Munro, 63, a talented bagpipe player who plans to return to playing Scottish music on his release, was also jailed for five years.
He was also given six months to pay up.
The couple provided prostitutes all over Scotland.
 The judge who jailed them, Michael O’Grady, said: “It has been an operation remarkable in scope, sophistication and organisation, not to mention profitability.” 
Paterson and Munro have been made the subject of financial reporting orders which require them to provide details of assets, income and expenditure during an eight-year period in only the second case of its kind in Scotland.
That is aimed at ensuring any assets which later come to light can also be targeted.
The pair were said to have carried out “a clearly business-like and well-organised, albeit criminal enterprise”.
Paterson entered into a partnership with Munro to run their business interests in 2002.
Following their convictions for offences arising from the sex trade, the Crown began proceedings against them to seize any profits made through crime.
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

