 SCOTTISH soldiers have clocked up more than 48,000 miles – almost twice round the world – as they save lives all over  the globe. 
Troops from the Royal Scots Borderers 1 SCOTS served in Malawi, Kenya, Cyprus, Jordan, Sierra Leone and Bosnia in the  last year.
They are about to start training for a move to Cyprus to man the UN lines later this year, making them the most-travelled unit in the Army.
A source, said: “Infantry soldiers are pretty well travelled these days but this battalion has really put the miles in.
 “From training  local troops in Malawi to fighting ebola in Sierra Leone, these guys have really put a shift in. 
“Afghanistan might be effectively over, but soldiers are still going to be pretty busy for the foreseeable future.”
Forty soldiers from the Royal Scots Borderers were sent to Sierra Leone last year to assist in the battle against the deadly ebola outbreak.
They arrived in October – part of a 750-troop deployment from the UK – on a humanitarian mission.
An Army spokesman said: “These soldiers could be among the most travelled across the British Army.
“So far this year, troops from the Royal Scots Borderers have found themselves in Malawi, Kenya, Cyprus and Jordan. Last year they were the first to deploy to Sierra Leone having just returned from Bosnia.
“And they are about to start a training cycle for a move to Cyprus to man the UN lines.
“These deployments follow the Army’s continuing focus on its readiness cycle, which sees units constantly rotate through different levels of training, often in different countries.
“At the same time there is fresh emphasis on Defence Engagement, requiring the Army to offer training and assistance to foreign military forces in order to build better relations with our international partners.”
In 2013, Army families faced massive upheaval as the Royal Scots Borderers moved from Edinburgh to Belfast.
The move broke the historic ties between the city and the 380-year-old regiment.
The Royal Scots were founded in 1633 and their headquarters have always been in Edinburgh Castle.
They merged with the King’s Own Scottish Borderers in 2006 under the controversial amalgamation of the Scottish regiments but kept their HQ in the capital.
 They still often recruit from  Edinburgh and the Lothians. 

