SCOTLAND’s fire service face a shocking &pound;42.7million shortfall by the end of the decade, say the public spending watchdog.
Audit Scotland estimated the massive funding black hole in a report published today.
Caroline Gardner, the auditor general, said the service are on track to exceed the &pound;328million of long-term savings as far ahead as 2028.
But she predicted a gap in the next five years, caused by budget cuts.
Gardner said: “Even without the funding gap identified in our report, a long-term financial strategy would be essential.
“It’s now crucial the service agree this strategy, and supporting plans, to show how they will close the funding gap and achieve savings by 2019-20.”
Her report calls for a new strategy by the end of next March.
The Scottish Fire and Rescue Service were formed from the previous regional divisions two years ago.
 

The service employed 9000 people and had a budget of &pound;272.7million in year one.
By the second year, the budget had fallen by &pound;13.6million.
Chief officer Alasdair Hay welcomed recognition the merger was successful. But he warned that funding cuts came at the same time as costs increased by &pound;16.7million.
Hay said: “As the Audit Scotland report acknowledges, this has been achieved with no impact on frontline operations or to the public and the services they receive.
 
“Indeed SFRS have delivered improvements during this period, including the extension of specialist resources, providing a higher number of home fire safety visits than ever before and a continuing reduction in fire fatalities and casualties.
“It is recognised funding pressures will intensify and work has already been undertaken to project costs and savings up to 2019-20.”
MSPs raised concerns that frontline staff and communities will suffer.

Lib Dem justice spokeswoman Alison McInnes said: “It is surprising and worrying that the service still don’t have a long-term financial strategy, given the prospect of a &pound;43million black hole in their budget.”
Tory justice spokeswoman Margaret Mitchell said: “The bottom line is that the focus must remain on public safety, accountability and the brave men and women who work for the service.”
 
Community Safety Minister Paul Wheelhouse said funds could not be set until the UK Government reveal their budget in July.
He added: “The situation is in direct contrast to England and Wales where since 2010 over 4700 firefighter posts have been cut – more than the number of full-time firefighters in the all eight predecessor Scottish Fire Services”
But Labour justice spokesman Hugh Henry said: “Public safety is now being threatened because the Government have left the Scottish Fire and Rescue Service with a significant funding gap of &pound;42.7million.
“These figures are alarming and bear out the concerns expressed by firefighters and their trade union.”
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

