 AT THE door of the makeshift kitchen at Faslane Peace Camp, a sign warns visitors that they are at risk of catching “hippytightus”. 
It’s a tongue-in-cheek nod to those  who dismiss this 33-year-old huddle of caravans as the indulgence of tree-huggers with a line in rainbow paint jobs.
But, growing from one of the many flower beds, a cherry tree – planted by survivors of Hiroshima – is a sobering reminder of why they are there.
The camp sits a few hundred yards from HM Naval Base Clyde, home to Britain’s key nuclear deterrent: four Vanguard-class submarines capable of carrying up to eight Trident missiles.
The subs are based at Faslane on the Gare Loch. Their missiles and warheads are stored and loaded at a nearby base, Coulport, on Loch Long.
Each Trident missile carries up to five nuclear warheads and each of these is about eight times as destructive as the bomb which flattened Hiroshima in 1945, killing more than 140,000 people.
The subs that carry Trident are due to reach the end of their operational lives within the next decade and the next UK government will decide whether to spend &pound;100billion – including running costs – on their replacement.
The future of Trident is the focus of national debate and it is most heated in Argyll, where there are conflicting  views on how valuable it is to the local economy.
A freedom of information request by Scottish CND in 2012 revealed that 520 civilian jobs at the Clyde Naval Base were directly dependent on Trident.
 But Labour MSP Jackie Baillie has claimed 11,000 jobs could be at risk if the SNP went ahead with their aim of moving the subs out of Scottish waters. 
John Rappallini, owner of the Clyde Bar in Helensburgh for 23 years, claims the benefits of the base to the local economy are exaggerated as it has every facility, from a nightclub to a hair salon, inside the fence. Many staff go back to England at weekends as their families are there.
 John has moral objections. Firstly, to the cost of replacing Trident, which equates to the building of 120 state-of-the-art hospitals or the creation of two million jobs. Secondly, he believes it is  indefensible that millions would be  incinerated should it be used. 
He said: “It is a waste of money, a disgrace when people need to use  food banks, that we are paying billions  for something only a madman would  ever use.”
Like many critics, he argues that Trident is an outdated form of defence when terrorism is the most relevant 21st century threat. He said: “If a couple of guys from Iran attack the base, what are we going to do? Bomb Iran?”
A year ago, 30-year-old-protester Heather Stewart found herself sitting  on a hunter-killer submarine in the Faslane base, astounded that it was  that easy to breach security.
All it took was a stepladder to get over the fence, some carpet over the barbed wire blockade and a security guard who believed her when she said she had forgotten her pass.
She said: “There were two of us and we only decided to do it that morning. It wasn’t like we planned it for weeks.
“I found it scary that it was so easy. I think they have tightened security since but it is terrifying to think what would have happened if we’d been terrorists.
“I am against Trident because of  the millions it could kill but I also think it is a real danger locally.”
In the event of an attack against Trident, it is unlikely a missile would be detonated but there is a credible threat of radiation contamination.
Tony Dance, 70, lives in Helensburgh and was a chief petty officer on Polaris, the precursor to Trident.
He sets aside the economics and morality and opposes Trident as a target on Scotland’s back.
Tony said: “We are the No1 target if an enemy state wants to attack us. It’s as simple as that and I just don’t want us to be a target anymore.
“Let someone else take Trident, we don’t want it here.”
Last month, the Ministry of Defence revealed that the number of radiation safety incidents at the base had leapt by more than half in a year. There were 105 “nuclear safety events” recorded at Faslane and Coulport in 2013-14, compared with 68 in 2012-13, the highest for at least the last six years.
 

But there are some people who want Trident to stay.
Michael Curley’s family have owned the Buffet Shop deli and cafe in  Helensburgh for 16 years and he believes the pros outweigh the cons.
Michael, 64, said: “It would be  devastating, right up to Dumbarton and beyond, if Trident was to go.
“What you have in Faslane is a  recession-free, ring-fenced industrial estate. Any other town in Scotland would give their eye teeth for a business that was going to be here today and tomorrow, not gone tomorrow.
“There is nowhere else can guarantee a job for life.”
His is one of the small businesses in the area who benefit from the base. He supplies luxury food to submariners to break the boredom of 12 weeks at sea.
Michael added: “You would see shops like mine, the butchers and the  fishmongers, all closing.”
A few miles to the north is the village of Garelochhead. With a population of just 1200, locals are fearful.
Steven Slee, 36, is the second  generation to run his family’s welding and fabrication business. Without Trident, he is doubtful it will make it to a third. Six jobs depend on the business.
He said: “We built the foundation of this business on the base and we are planning its expansion on it but, not only would we fail to grow if we lost Trident, we may not be around at all.”
In a family centre in Helensburgh which serves the wives and children of the base, mum-of-two Claire Grover said she is proud to be the wife of a retired Trident chief petty officer.
Mancunian Claire said: “The impact in Helensburgh if we lost the base would transform it and it wouldn’t be the place I have been happy to call home for 20 years.”
For children, there is a wealth of opportunities she believes is down to the thriving population, from the sailing clubs to the five dance schools.
She said: “We all own our own homes. We don’t want this to become another Dunoon and spiral downwards and, with no real employment,  properties go down and before you know it, you are in negative equity.”
There are, of course, moral objections to weapons which could incinerate millions of innocent people.
Claire said: “I see it as a necessary evil. It is an effective defence system.
“If you play with the big boys, you don’t want to get caught with your trousers down.”

