  McQueen 20′  Marsh 28′  
  Cadden 40′  Gemmell 62′  Fisher 74′  
 Albion Rovers recovered from a two-goal deficit to beat Clyde and clinch the Scottish League Two title, as second-place Queen's Park drew at Arbroath. 
 Clyde were two up by the half-hour mark with Brian McQueen and then David Marsh heading home. 
 Chris Cadden pulled one back for Rovers before the break with a low strike. 
 John Gemmell's rising shot drew the sides level and Gary Fisher's long-range effort completed the comeback and ensured promotion for the visitors. 
    Full Time  Match ends, Clyde 2, Albion Rovers 3. 
    Full Time  Second Half ends, Clyde 2, Albion Rovers 3. 
 Corner, Clyde. Conceded by Darren Young. 
 Corner, Clyde. Conceded by Neil Parry. 
 Corner, Albion Rovers. Conceded by Ged Traynor. 
  Booking  Mark McLaughlin (Clyde) is shown the yellow card. 
 Foul by Mark McLaughlin (Clyde). 
 John Gemmell (Albion Rovers) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt missed. Kyle Turnbull (Albion Rovers) right footed shot from outside the box is too high from a direct free kick. 
 Foul by Mark McLaughlin (Clyde). 
 Gary Fisher (Albion Rovers) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Corner, Albion Rovers. Conceded by Ged Traynor. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Albion Rovers. Marc McKenzie replaces Ally Love. 
 Corner, Clyde. Conceded by Ross Dunlop. 
 Foul by Steven McDougall (Clyde). 
 Ally Love (Albion Rovers) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Scott Ferguson (Clyde) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Gary Phillips (Albion Rovers). 
  Booking  Gary Fisher (Albion Rovers) is shown the yellow card. 
  Goal!  Goal! Clyde 2, Albion Rovers 3. Gary Fisher (Albion Rovers) right footed shot from the right side of the box to the top left corner. 
 Foul by Ross Fisher (Clyde). 
 Mark McGuigan (Albion Rovers) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by David Marsh (Clyde). 
 Ally Love (Albion Rovers) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Ally Love (Albion Rovers). 
 Scott Durie (Clyde) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Corner, Clyde. Conceded by Ross Davidson. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Clyde. Stephen O'Donnell replaces William Robb because of an injury. 
  Goal!  Goal! Clyde 2, Albion Rovers 2. John Gemmell (Albion Rovers) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the top left corner. Assisted by Gary Phillips following a set piece situation. 
 John Gemmell (Albion Rovers) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by William Robb (Clyde). 
 Attempt saved. Scott Ferguson (Clyde) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Attempt saved. Scott Ferguson (Clyde) header from the centre of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. 
 Attempt missed. Brian McQueen (Clyde) left footed shot from the left side of the box is close, but misses to the right. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Clyde. Scott Ferguson replaces Mark Roberts. 
 Foul by Ross Davidson (Albion Rovers). 
 Mark McLaughlin (Clyde) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt missed. Mark McGuigan (Albion Rovers) right footed shot from the right side of the box misses to the right. 
 Ally Love (Albion Rovers) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by David Marsh (Clyde). 
 Foul by Mark McGuigan (Albion Rovers). 
 William Robb (Clyde) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
   Second Half begins Clyde 2, Albion Rovers 1. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Albion Rovers. John Gemmell replaces Scott Chaplain. 
    Half Time  First Half ends, Clyde 2, Albion Rovers 1. 
 Attempt saved. Mark Roberts (Clyde) header from the centre of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. 
 Corner, Albion Rovers. Conceded by Euan Murray. 
 Corner, Albion Rovers. Conceded by David Marsh. 
 Foul by Scott Chaplain (Albion Rovers). 
 Mark McLaughlin (Clyde) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
  Goal!  Goal! Clyde 2, Albion Rovers 1. Chris Cadden (Albion Rovers) right footed shot from outside the box to the bottom left corner. 
  Booking  David Marsh (Clyde) is shown the yellow card. 
 Chris Cadden (Albion Rovers) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by David Marsh (Clyde). 
 Corner, Albion Rovers. Conceded by Alan Martin. 
 Attempt saved. Ross Davidson (Albion Rovers) left footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Foul by Mark Roberts (Clyde). 
 Gary Fisher (Albion Rovers) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Ross Davidson (Albion Rovers). 
 Ged Traynor (Clyde) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Gary Fisher (Albion Rovers) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Brian McQueen (Clyde). 
 Foul by Euan Murray (Clyde). 
 Chris Cadden (Albion Rovers) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
  Goal!  Goal! Clyde 2, Albion Rovers 0. David Marsh (Clyde) header from very close range to the bottom right corner. Assisted by Steven McDougall. 
 Gary Fisher (Albion Rovers) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Mark Roberts (Clyde). 
 Corner, Albion Rovers. Conceded by William Robb. 
 Foul by Mark McLaughlin (Clyde). 
 Mark McGuigan (Albion Rovers) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
  Goal!  Goal! Clyde 1, Albion Rovers 0. Brian McQueen (Clyde) header from the centre of the box to the top right corner. Assisted by Scott Durie. 
 Attempt missed. David Marsh (Clyde) right footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the left. 
 Gary Fisher (Albion Rovers) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Ged Traynor (Clyde). 
 Attempt saved. Chris Cadden (Albion Rovers) left footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Attempt saved. Ally Love (Albion Rovers) left footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Corner, Clyde. Conceded by Kyle Turnbull. 
 Attempt blocked. Brian McQueen (Clyde) header from the centre of the box is blocked. 
 Corner, Clyde. Conceded by Darren Young. 
 Corner, Clyde. Conceded by Gary Phillips. 
 Foul by Darren Young (Albion Rovers). 
 Mark Roberts (Clyde) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt missed. Steven McDougall (Clyde) right footed shot from the right side of the box is high and wide to the right. 
 Scott Chaplain (Albion Rovers) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by William Robb (Clyde). 
   First Half begins. 
 Lineups are announced and players are warming up. 
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
