  Scotland 21′  Crawford 52′  
 Player-manager Martin Canning claimed his first win since taking charge of Hamilton as they won the Lanarkshire derby against Motherwell. 
 Jason Scotland put Hamilton in front after Lee Erwin tried to be too clever in midfield and lost possession. 
 Ali Crawford extended the lead after half-time with a well-placed shot. 
 While Hamilton have secured their top-flight status for another season, Motherwell have it all to do to avoid the play-offs. 
 A win for Ross County on Saturday would see the Steelmen slip nine points behind the Dingwall men with just 12 to play for, while St Mirren can also close the gap at the bottom to seven points. 
 It was nights like these that Friday night football was designed for, and Motherwell supporters packed out the away end at New Douglas Park, welcoming the teams out with a colourful card display. 
 On the field there were half chances at both ends. Grant Gillespie sent a weak shot wide for Hamilton, before goalkeeper Michael McGovern palmed away Motherwell winger Lionel Ainsworth's deflected effort. 
 Hamilton then took full advantage when Erwin gave away possession in his own half, leaving Scotland to slip in between two defenders to pick his spot in the bottom left-hand corner. 
 Erwin almost made up for his error when he caught the ball on the half-volley but his shot swept past the post. 
 Both sides hit the bar with shots from Accies' Michael Devlin and Motherwell's Marvin Johnson. 
 Hamilton striker Darian MacKinnon saw his powerful effort saved but it was Motherwell who finished the first half the strongest with Erwin and Ainsworth getting shots away from inside the area. 
 They started the second half on the front foot too; Erwin almost diverting a free-kick from the left into the far corner, but they would pay for their profligacy in front of goal. 
 Crawford's first touch from Dougie Imrie's pass set the former up for his left-foot shot into the corner, his 10th goal of the season. 
 Substitute Dom Thomas's low shot skimmed the post for Motherwell, then Devlin headed over from close range. 
 Motherwell's confidence slowly disappeared and defeat in their next fixture against Ross County could condemn Ian Baraclough's men to the relegation play-offs. 
    Full Time  Match ends, Hamilton Academical 2, Motherwell 0. 
    Full Time  Second Half ends, Hamilton Academical 2, Motherwell 0. 
 Lucas (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Lee Erwin (Motherwell). 
 Dougie Imrie (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Stephen McManus (Motherwell). 
 Grant Gillespie (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Lee Erwin (Motherwell). 
 Attempt missed. Stephen McManus (Motherwell) right footed shot from outside the box misses to the right. 
 Foul by Louis Longridge (Hamilton Academical). 
 (Motherwell) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Attempt saved. Lee Erwin (Motherwell) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Foul by Lucas (Hamilton Academical). 
 John Sutton (Motherwell) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Michael Devlin (Hamilton Academical). 
 John Sutton (Motherwell) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
  Booking  Nigel Hasselbaink (Hamilton Academical) is shown the yellow card. 
 Attempt missed. John Sutton (Motherwell) header from the centre of the box is high and wide to the right following a set piece situation. 
  Booking  Darren Lyon (Hamilton Academical) is shown the yellow card. 
 Foul by Darren Lyon (Hamilton Academical). 
 Dom Thomas (Motherwell) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Ali Crawford (Hamilton Academical). 
 Lee Erwin (Motherwell) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt missed. Dougie Imrie (Hamilton Academical) left footed shot from outside the box is too high. 
 Louis Longridge (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Josh Law (Motherwell). 
 Darren Lyon (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by John Sutton (Motherwell). 
 Foul by Darian MacKinnon (Hamilton Academical). 
 Stephen McManus (Motherwell) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Motherwell. John Sutton replaces Scott McDonald. 
  Booking  Michael Devlin (Hamilton Academical) is shown the yellow card. 
 Foul by Ali Crawford (Hamilton Academical). 
 Stephen Pearson (Motherwell) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt missed. Lucas (Hamilton Academical) header from the centre of the box is just a bit too high following a corner. 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Keith Lasley. 
 Attempt saved. Nigel Hasselbaink (Hamilton Academical) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Attempt missed. Dom Thomas (Motherwell) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Corner, Motherwell. Conceded by Lucas. 
 Attempt blocked. Lionel Ainsworth (Motherwell) right footed shot from long range on the right is blocked. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Hamilton Academical. Nigel Hasselbaink replaces Jason Scotland because of an injury. 
 Darian MacKinnon (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Keith Lasley (Motherwell). 
 Dougie Imrie (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Stephen Pearson (Motherwell). 
  Substitution  Substitution, Motherwell. Dom Thomas replaces Marvin Johnson. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Hamilton Academical. Lucas replaces Jesus Garcia Tena because of an injury. 
 Attempt missed. Darian MacKinnon (Hamilton Academical) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left. 
  Goal!  Goal! Hamilton Academical 2, Motherwell 0. Ali Crawford (Hamilton Academical) left footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom right corner. Assisted by Dougie Imrie. 
 Attempt saved. Darian MacKinnon (Hamilton Academical) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Corner, Motherwell. Conceded by Michael Devlin. 
 Marvin Johnson (Motherwell) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Darren Lyon (Hamilton Academical). 
 Attempt missed. Darian MacKinnon (Hamilton Academical) right footed shot from the centre of the box is too high. 
   Second Half begins Hamilton Academical 1, Motherwell 0. 
    Half Time  First Half ends, Hamilton Academical 1, Motherwell 0. 
 Attempt missed. Lionel Ainsworth (Motherwell) right footed shot from the right side of the box is high and wide to the left. 
 Corner, Motherwell. Conceded by Darren Lyon. 
 Attempt saved. Lee Erwin (Motherwell) right footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Stephen McManus. 
 Foul by Jesus Garcia Tena (Hamilton Academical). 
 Scott McDonald (Motherwell) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Josh Law. 
 Foul by Anthony Straker (Motherwell). 
 Darian MacKinnon (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Attempt saved. Darian MacKinnon (Hamilton Academical) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Marvin Johnson (Motherwell) hits the bar with a right footed shot from the left side of the box. 
 Attempt missed. Fraser Kerr (Motherwell) header from the centre of the box is too high following a corner. 
 Corner, Motherwell. Conceded by Darren Lyon. 
 Michael Devlin (Hamilton Academical) hits the bar with a header from the right side of the six yard box following a corner. 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Marvin Johnson. 
 Attempt blocked. Dougie Imrie (Hamilton Academical) header from the centre of the box is blocked. 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Stephen McManus. 
 Attempt blocked. Ali Crawford (Hamilton Academical) right footed shot from the right side of the box is blocked. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Motherwell. Fraser Kerr replaces Louis Laing because of an injury. 
 Lee Erwin (Motherwell) hits the left post with a left footed shot from the centre of the box. 
 Hand ball by Lionel Ainsworth (Motherwell). 
  Goal!  Goal! Hamilton Academical 1, Motherwell 0. Jason Scotland (Hamilton Academical) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom left corner. Assisted by Ali Crawford. 
 Hand ball by Scott McDonald (Motherwell). 
 Keith Lasley (Motherwell) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Darian MacKinnon (Hamilton Academical). 
 Corner, Hamilton Academical. Conceded by Stephen McManus. 
 Stephen Pearson (Motherwell) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Darian MacKinnon (Hamilton Academical). 
 Attempt saved. Lionel Ainsworth (Motherwell) right footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. 
 Corner, Motherwell. Conceded by Darren Lyon. 
 Attempt missed. Grant Gillespie (Hamilton Academical) left footed shot from the centre of the box misses to the left. 
 Grant Gillespie (Hamilton Academical) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Lee Erwin (Motherwell). 
   First Half begins. 
 Lineups are announced and players are warming up. 
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
