  Vuckic 83′  Law 90′  
  Baird 57′  Taiwo 61′  
 Rangers were knocked off second place in the Scottish Championship, despite fighting back to draw with Falkirk. 
 The visitors, fresh from reaching the Scottish Cup final, looked likely to continue their winning run after establishing a two-goal lead. 
 John Baird scored the opener then set the second for Tom Taiwo as Rangers' defence collapsed under pressure. 
 But the home side pegged back the Bairns through Haris Vuckic's header and Nicky Law's stoppage-time strike. 
 Stuart McCall's side slip one point below Hibs ahead of next week's final round of league fixtures. 
 The team finishing third will face Queen of the South over two legs to decide who meets the division's runners-up in the Premiership play-off semi-final double-header. 
 The winner will then meet the team finishing second-bottom in the Premiership, again over two legs, with a place in the top flight the prize. 
 Rangers threatened first through Ryan Hardie, who drilled in a shot that Falkirk goalkeeper Jamie MacDonald had to tip over. 
 Hardie then fed Tom Walsh for an effort that was on target but blocked. 
 Relying on the midfield nous of Mark Kerr and Taiwo, and the hard running of Baird up front, the visitors played their way back into the game. 
 Luke Leahy's cross found Baird on the penalty spot and the striker's first-time shot forced keeper Cammy Bell to throw himself up to block, then fell awkwardly and require treatment for a few minutes. 
 Bell might still have been dazed when he rushed out from goal to meet Baird, only for the striker to carry the ball round him. The angle was too tight for a shot on goal, and the Rangers defence eventually dealt with the situation. 
 A Lee Wallace cross forced Leahy to hack the ball clear from near his goal-line early in the second half, then Walsh's effort from the corner of the penalty area flew just wide. 
 The home side were soon more concerned with their fragile defending, which Falkirk took full advantage of. The visitors broke the deadlock with a straightforward corner kick that Rangers failed to deal with, leaving Baird free in the six-yard box to finish decisively. 
 Baird then turned provider, beating Lee McCulloch to the ball on the halfway line then racing upfield. He was composed enough to spot the supporting run of Taiwo and measured a pass for the midfielder to shoot calmly past the exposed Bell. 
 The same pair combined again after Baird left McCulloch stranded for a second time, but Taiwo's shot was pushed away by Bell. 
 Some Rangers fans started booing captain McCulloch when he had the ball, prompting others to applaud him in support, but the mood was not helped when he met a free-kick inside the Falkirk penalty area only to head the ball clear instead of towards goal. 
 Rangers kept pressing, with Walsh hitting the post and Darren McGregor's header towards the top corner pushed over by MacDonald. 
 The home side's effort was eventually rewarded though when Vuckic met Law's corner with a powerful header that left MacDonald grasping at thin air. 
 The goalkeeper looked to have secured all three points for Falkirk and their first win at Ibrox since 1994 with a flying save to tip McCulloch's header over. 
 But, from the resulting corner, Law steered a shot into the far corner to restore parity. 
    Full Time  Match ends, Rangers 2, Falkirk 2. 
    Full Time  Second Half ends, Rangers 2, Falkirk 2. 
  Goal!  Goal! Rangers 2, Falkirk 2. Nicky Law (Rangers) right footed shot from the left side of the box to the bottom right corner following a corner. 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Jamie MacDonald. 
 Attempt saved. Lee McCulloch (Rangers) header from the centre of the box is saved in the top left corner. 
 Attempt blocked. Dean Shiels (Rangers) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. 
 Attempt missed. Lee McCulloch (Rangers) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the right following a set piece situation. 
  Booking  Tom Taiwo (Falkirk) is shown the yellow card. 
 Dean Shiels (Rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Tom Taiwo (Falkirk). 
  Substitution  Substitution, Falkirk. Liam Dick replaces Craig Sibbald. 
  Goal!  Goal! Rangers 1, Falkirk 2. Haris Vuckic (Rangers) header from the centre of the box to the bottom left corner. Assisted by Nicky Law with a cross following a corner. 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by David McCracken. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Falkirk. Botti Bia Bi replaces John Baird. 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Jamie MacDonald. 
 Attempt saved. Darren McGregor (Rangers) header from the centre of the box is saved in the top left corner. 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Mark Kerr. 
 Andy Murdoch (Rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Will Vaulks (Falkirk). 
 Tom Walsh (Rangers) hits the right post with a right footed shot from the centre of the box. 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Peter Grant. 
 Nicky Law (Rangers) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Mark Kerr (Falkirk). 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Peter Grant. 
 Delay over. They are ready to continue. 
 Delay in match Craig Sibbald (Falkirk) because of an injury. 
 Attempt saved. Tom Taiwo (Falkirk) right footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Peter Grant. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Rangers. Nicky Clark replaces Ryan Hardie. 
 Attempt missed. Blair Alston (Falkirk) right footed shot from the centre of the box is just a bit too high following a corner. 
 Corner, Falkirk. Conceded by Lee Wallace. 
 Corner, Falkirk. Conceded by Darren McGregor. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Rangers. Dean Shiels replaces Kenny Miller. 
  Goal!  Goal! Rangers 0, Falkirk 2. Tom Taiwo (Falkirk) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the centre of the goal. Assisted by John Baird following a fast break. 
 Attempt saved. Lee McCulloch (Rangers) header from the centre of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Peter Grant. 
 Foul by Robbie Crawford (Rangers). 
 Craig Sibbald (Falkirk) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
  Goal!  Goal! Rangers 0, Falkirk 1. John Baird (Falkirk) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the centre of the goal. Assisted by Craig Sibbald with a cross following a corner. 
 Corner, Falkirk. Conceded by Lee McCulloch. 
 Attempt blocked. Tom Taiwo (Falkirk) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. 
 Attempt missed. Tom Walsh (Rangers) right footed shot from outside the box is too high following a fast break. 
 Attempt blocked. Luke Leahy (Falkirk) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked. 
 Corner, Falkirk. Conceded by Darren McGregor. 
 Lee McCulloch (Rangers) wins a free kick on the left wing. 
 Foul by Craig Sibbald (Falkirk). 
 Attempt missed. Tom Walsh (Rangers) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the right. 
   Second Half begins Rangers 0, Falkirk 0. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Rangers. Robbie Crawford replaces Marius Zaliukas. 
    Half Time  First Half ends, Rangers 0, Falkirk 0. 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Aaron Muirhead. 
 Foul by Darren McGregor (Rangers). 
 Craig Sibbald (Falkirk) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by David McCracken. 
 Foul by Tom Walsh (Rangers). 
 Aaron Muirhead (Falkirk) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
  Booking  Nicky Law (Rangers) is shown the yellow card. 
 Attempt missed. Kenny Miller (Rangers) right footed shot from the centre of the box misses to the left following a corner. 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Luke Leahy. 
 Aaron Muirhead (Falkirk) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Tom Walsh (Rangers). 
 Attempt blocked. Blair Alston (Falkirk) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. 
 Blair Alston (Falkirk) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Lee Wallace (Rangers). 
 Foul by Tom Taiwo (Falkirk). 
 Kenny Miller (Rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Delay over. They are ready to continue. 
 Delay in match Cammy Bell (Rangers) because of an injury. 
 Corner, Falkirk. Conceded by Cammy Bell. 
 Attempt saved. John Baird (Falkirk) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the top right corner. 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Blair Alston. 
 Attempt blocked. Tom Walsh (Rangers) right footed shot from the left side of the box is blocked. 
 John Baird (Falkirk) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Lee McCulloch (Rangers). 
 Lee Wallace (Rangers) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Blair Alston (Falkirk). 
 Attempt saved. Haris Vuckic (Rangers) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the top left corner. 
 Attempt saved. Ryan Hardie (Rangers) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Attempt blocked. Kenny Miller (Rangers) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. 
 Attempt missed. Haris Vuckic (Rangers) right footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the right. 
 Attempt saved. Ryan Hardie (Rangers) left footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom right corner. 
 Attempt missed. Marius Zaliukas (Rangers) right footed shot from the centre of the box is too high following a corner. 
 Attempt missed. Darren McGregor (Rangers) right footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left following a corner. 
 Corner, Rangers. Conceded by David McCracken. 
 Foul by Haris Vuckic (Rangers). 
 Luke Leahy (Falkirk) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Andy Murdoch (Rangers). 
 Tom Taiwo (Falkirk) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
   First Half begins. 
 Lineups are announced and players are warming up. 
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
