  Holt 55′  McKenna 72′  
  McCallum 80′  
 Queen of the South clinched the final promotion play-off spot in the Scottish Championship after beating Dumbarton. 
 A Derek Lyle header that was saved by Sons goalkeeper Danny Rogers was one of few first-half chances. 
 Kevin Holt opened the scoring for Queens after the break with a close-range tap-in. 
 Stephen McKenna curled in the hosts' second from outside the area before Donald McCallum's neat finish pulled one back for the visitors. 
 And the result ensures James Fowler's side will meet either Hibernian or Rangers over two legs in the initial round of the Premiership play-offs. 
 The winner of that tie will progress to meet the Championship runners-up in the semi-final double-header. The team finishing second-bottom in the Premiership will await the semi-final victors. 
    Full Time  Match ends, Queen of the South 2, Dumbarton 1. 
    Full Time  Second Half ends, Queen of the South 2, Dumbarton 1. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Queen of the South. Jake Pickard replaces Gavin Reilly. 
 Attempt missed. Donald McCallum (Dumbarton) right footed shot from the centre of the box is high and wide to the left. 
 Lewis Kidd (Queen of the South) hits the left post with a left footed shot from the centre of the box. 
 Corner, Dumbarton. Conceded by Ian McShane. 
 Attempt blocked. Mark Gilhaney (Dumbarton) right footed shot from the right side of the box is blocked. 
 Attempt missed. Archie Campbell (Dumbarton) right footed shot from the right side of the box is close, but misses the top right corner. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Queen of the South. Lewis Kidd replaces Derek Lyle. 
 Stephen McKenna (Queen of the South) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Scott Agnew (Dumbarton). 
 Attempt missed. Stephen McKenna (Queen of the South) right footed shot from outside the box is too high. 
  Goal!  Goal! Queen of the South 2, Dumbarton 1. Donald McCallum (Dumbarton) left footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom right corner. Assisted by Mark Gilhaney. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Dumbarton. Donald McCallum replaces Darren Petrie. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Dumbarton. Ryan Clark replaces Mitchel Megginson. 
 Foul by Stephen McKenna (Queen of the South). 
 Darren Petrie (Dumbarton) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
  Goal!  Goal! Queen of the South 2, Dumbarton 0. Stephen McKenna (Queen of the South) right footed shot from outside the box to the bottom right corner. 
 Corner, Queen of the South. Conceded by Scott Agnew. 
 Corner, Dumbarton. Conceded by Jim Atkinson. 
 Attempt saved. Stuart Findlay (Dumbarton) header from the centre of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. 
 Corner, Dumbarton. Conceded by Kevin Holt. 
  Booking  Daniel Carmichael (Queen of the South) is shown the yellow card. 
 Foul by Daniel Carmichael (Queen of the South). 
 Archie Campbell (Dumbarton) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Corner, Queen of the South. Conceded by Stuart Findlay. 
 Foul by Gavin Reilly (Queen of the South). 
 Scott Taggart (Dumbarton) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Dumbarton. Mark Gilhaney replaces Jordan Kirkpatrick. 
 Attempt missed. Daniel Carmichael (Queen of the South) right footed shot from outside the box is too high. 
 Attempt blocked. Michael Paton (Queen of the South) right footed shot from the left side of the box is blocked. 
 Foul by Gavin Reilly (Queen of the South). 
 Scott Taggart (Dumbarton) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Daniel Carmichael (Queen of the South). 
 Scott Linton (Dumbarton) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
  Goal!  Goal! Queen of the South 1, Dumbarton 0. Kevin Holt (Queen of the South) left footed shot from the left side of the six yard box to the bottom left corner. Assisted by Ian McShane. 
 Andy Dowie (Queen of the South) wins a free kick on the right wing. 
 Foul by Scott Agnew (Dumbarton). 
 Attempt missed. Archie Campbell (Dumbarton) right footed shot from outside the box is too high. 
 Chris Turner (Dumbarton) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Daniel Carmichael (Queen of the South). 
 Mark Wilson (Dumbarton) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Derek Lyle (Queen of the South). 
   Second Half begins Queen of the South 0, Dumbarton 0. 
    Half Time  First Half ends, Queen of the South 0, Dumbarton 0. 
 Attempt saved. Mark Durnan (Queen of the South) header from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Corner, Queen of the South. Conceded by Stuart Findlay. 
 Corner, Queen of the South. Conceded by Mark Wilson. 
 Stuart Findlay (Dumbarton) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Chris Higgins (Queen of the South). 
 Corner, Queen of the South. Conceded by Stuart Findlay. 
 Corner, Dumbarton. Conceded by Mark Durnan. 
 Foul by Scott Agnew (Dumbarton). 
 Gavin Reilly (Queen of the South) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Corner, Queen of the South. Conceded by Stuart Findlay. 
 Chris Turner (Dumbarton) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Stephen McKenna (Queen of the South). 
 Corner, Queen of the South. Conceded by Scott Taggart. 
 Corner, Dumbarton. Conceded by Jim Atkinson. 
 Attempt saved. Mitchel Megginson (Dumbarton) right footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the bottom right corner. 
 Corner, Queen of the South. Conceded by Stuart Findlay. 
 Attempt blocked. Ian McShane (Queen of the South) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. 
 Foul by Stuart Findlay (Dumbarton). 
 Lewis Kidd (Queen of the South) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Attempt saved. Ian McShane (Queen of the South) left footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
 Attempt missed. Mitchel Megginson (Dumbarton) header from the centre of the box is just a bit too high. 
 Attempt missed. Derek Lyle (Queen of the South) header from the centre of the box is just a bit too high. 
 Attempt saved. Derek Lyle (Queen of the South) header from the right side of the six yard box is saved in the bottom left corner. 
  Substitution  Substitution, Queen of the South. Michael Paton replaces Iain Russell because of an injury. 
 Scott Linton (Dumbarton) wins a free kick in the attacking half. 
 Foul by Andy Dowie (Queen of the South). 
  Booking  Archie Campbell (Dumbarton) is shown the yellow card. 
 Iain Russell (Queen of the South) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Archie Campbell (Dumbarton). 
 Darren Petrie (Dumbarton) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
 Foul by Stephen McKenna (Queen of the South). 
 Foul by Jordan Kirkpatrick (Dumbarton). 
 Stephen McKenna (Queen of the South) wins a free kick in the defensive half. 
   First Half begins. 
 Lineups are announced and players are warming up. 
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
