Coverage: Listen on BBC Radio Scotland and BBC Sport website; live text commentary on BBC Sport website
 Dundee United welcome back midfielder John Rankin when they host Scottish Premiership leaders Celtic on Sunday. 
 Aidan Connolly could also return from illness but midfielder Calum Butcher is doubtful with a shoulder injury. 
 Mario Bilate, Paul Paton and Ryan Dow have all been ruled out for the rest of the season. 
 Adam Matthews and Stefan Johansen return to the Celtic squad, but defenders Charlie Mulgrew and Mikael Lustig are is still out. 
  Dundee United manager Jackie McNamara:  &quot;It's got the makings of a very good game. They don't come much bigger than Celtic at home. 
 &quot;We know what's at stake and we want to finish the season as strongly as possible. 
 &quot;You always hope an occasion like this can bring out the best in the players. That's the way we've got to look at it and hopefully it will come Sunday. 
 &quot;We know they're a strong side but we just have to look after ourselves. 
 &quot;We have to focus on what we're good at and hope to play that way on Sunday. 
 &quot;There's still a lot to play for between now and the end of the season. Celtic will have their own aims in mind and so do we. We want to finish as high up the table as we can. 
 &quot;We know it won't be easy but we will give it our best shot. We want the three points and will try to win like we do any other game.&quot; 
  Celtic manager Ronny Deila:  &quot;I have a lot of respect for Dundee United. They have had a good season but it was tough for them after they lost two players when we got Gary Mackay-Steven and Stuart Armstrong, but it's going to be a tough game on Sunday. 
 &quot;I expect it'll be a high intensity game but hopefully without any red cards and we can play 11 v 11 as that's the most fun thing to do and that's what we're aiming for. 
 &quot;If we just keep continuing to win and if Aberdeen keep winning that's the first chance to do it [10 May at Pittodrie] but we have been good to focus on the next game and we did well on Wednesday to get through that game. 
 &quot;We have another important game on Sunday and you can see it getting closer but also the games are getting bigger.&quot; 
