Coverage: Listen on BBC Radio Scotland and online; live text commentary on BBC Sport website
 Celtic have no fresh injury worries for Friday evening's meeting with Dundee. 
 Midfielder Charlie Mulgrew has made a good recovery from his hamstring tendon injury but is not quite ready and right-back Mikael Lustig is still out. 
 Dundee are without suspended striker Greg Stewart following his red card against St Johnstone. 
 Midfielder Paul McGowan is unavailable because of his court-imposed curfew, but Gary Harkins, Gary Irvine and Simon Ferry are all back from injury. 
 Should Celtic win and Aberdeen then drop points against Dundee United on Saturday, Ronny Deila's side will be confirmed as champions. 
  Celtic midfielder Kris Commons:  &quot;For us it is about getting it [the Scottish Premiership title] done and dusted, the sooner the better, and hopefully the manager might start making a few changes to give some senior players a bit of a rest. 
 &quot;Everyone knows our biggest games of the season come short and sharp around July time so it is important for them to get the feet up. 
 &quot;It is very difficult for players. Everyone thinks in the off-season you get the feet up to go away with your family and recharge the batteries. 
 &quot;For us, we get three weeks off and are back in the swing of things. The Champions League group stages is a requirement spoken about every pre-season. 
 &quot;So it is about getting the job done on Friday and then we can look at other results. 
 &quot;But if it means going up to Aberdeen the week later to try to put in a performance there, then that is what we will do.&quot; 
  Dundee manager Paul Hartley:  &quot;I thought the earlier game down there was one of our better performances away from home. So I would like to think we can take some heart from that. 
 &quot;It's never easy going to play against Celtic away from home but it's one we will approach positively. You look for any positive going into a game like this and we can look back on some decent performances. 
 &quot;They will be raring to go come Friday night. There's still plenty to play for between now and the end of the season. We want to get as many points as we can in our final few games and see where it takes us. 
 &quot;You never know what can happen but first and foremost we'll focus on Celtic.&quot; 
